46P:  Prior Import Equivalence for Outward Processing.
--------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Import of replacement products under the outward processing procedure before exportation of goods they are replacing (Prior Import Equivalence (PIE)) in accordance with Article 223(2)(d) of Council Regulation (EU) No. 952/2013.

### Goods covered:

This additional procedure code is only to be used for the prior importation of equivalent goods under Outward Processing.

### Conditions for use:

The prior import of equivalent goods must be followed by an export under outward processing of the goods they are replacing.

Evidence must be held to demonstrate the subsequent export of the replaced goods.This Additional Procedure Code may only be used where the Outward Processing authorisation expressly permits Prior Import Equivalence (PIE).

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code is only to be used where the equivalent goods are being imported prior to the exportation of the replacement products.

For prior importation of replacements for defective goods use Additional Procedure Code 48P instead.

The goods must meet the equivalence conditions laid down in [Notice 3001](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code).

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Notices:

[Notice 3001: customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

When replacements are imported under the Standard Exchange System (SES) with earlier importation, security for the potential Customs Duty on the full value is needed, by deposit or guarantee. Security will be discharged when evidence is produced of the subsequent export of the goods being replaced.

### VAT:

VAT is due on the full customs value, whether or not the replacement goods are supplied free of charge.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code 46P can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure code (DE 1/10): 0121, 0721, 4221, 4421, 4422, 5121, 6121, 6122, 7121, 7122.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

