48P:  Prior Import Equivalence for the replacement of defective goods under Outward Processing
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Import of replacement products under the outward processing procedure before exportation of the defective goods they are replacing (Prior Import Equivalence (PIE)) in accordance with Article 262(1) of Council Regulation (EU) No. 952/2013.

### Goods covered:

This additional procedure code is only to be used for the prior importation of equivalent goods as replacement products for defective items under Outward Processing.

Standard exchange system (IM-EX), prior importation for the replacement of defective goods only.

### Conditions for use:

This additional procedure code is to be used for the prior import of goods as replacements for defective products.

Where the replacements are made under guarantee, Additional Procedure Code B03 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Please refer to the notes under B03 for further details.

This Additional Procedure Code may only be used where the Outward Processing authorisation expressly permits Prior Import Equivalence (PIE).

Evidence must be held to demonstrate the subsequent export of the defective goods.

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code is only to be used for the prior import of replacements for defective goods. For any other type of prior import equivalence, use Additional Procedure Code 46P instead.

The goods must meet the equivalence conditions laid down in [Notice 3001](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code).

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Notices:

[Notice 3001: customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

When replacements are imported under the Standard Exchange System (SES) with earlier importation, security for the potential Customs Duty on the full value is needed, by deposit or guarantee. Security will be discharged when evidence is produced of the subsequent export of the goods being replaced.

### VAT:

VAT is due on the full customs value, whether or not the replacement goods are supplied free of charge.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code 48P can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure code (DE 1/10): 0121, 0721, 4221, 4422, 5121, 6122, 7122.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

   [    Contents](#contents)   Print this page       