A04: Goods which are being placed under or discharged from an Inward Processing Procedure (VAT only)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Goods which are being placed under or discharged from an inward processing procedure (Article 256, EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (UCC)) with VAT only suspension.

### Goods covered:

Non-Union goods or goods from a Special Fiscal Territory or other Territory with which the EU has formed a Customs Union (Article 1 (3), EU Reg No 952/2013 Union Customs Code (UCC)), which are being entered to or discharged from an inward processing procedure (IP) with a VAT only suspension.

### Conditions for use:

A Bill of Discharge (Form BOD1) must be submitted to the supervising office by the due date. Failure to submit a Bill of Discharge by the due date to the supervising office may lead to a demand to pay any suspended VAT.

See conditions and requirements detailed in Notice 3001.

### Restrictions on usage:

For non-Union Goods:

 * This Additional Procedure Code may not be used where the goods have a positive erga omnes customs duty rate.
 * Goods may not be entered to this Additional Procedure Code where the customs duty liability has been reduced to zero as a result of any tariff preferences or other customs duty reliefs.

Goods from a Special Fiscal Territory or Territory with which the EU has formed a customs Union:

 * Goods may only be entered to this Additional Procedure Code where they are in free-circulation and have customs union status.

### Notices:

[Notice 3001: customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

This Additional Procedure Code suspends VAT when goods enter IP.

VAT may be payable on any diversion to free circulation or home use.

### Post clearance action:

A Bill of Discharge (Form BOD1) must be submitted to the supervising office by the due date.

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code A04 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure codes (DE 1/10): 0151, 0154, 4051, 4054, 4251, 4254, 5100, 5151, 5153, 5154, 5171, 5178, 6131, 7151, 7154.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

   [    Contents](#contents)   Print this page       