B02: Processed products returning after repair under guarantee in accordance with Article 260 of the Code (goods repaired free of charge).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Re-importation of goods after Outward Processing (OP) for processed products returning after repair under guarantee in accordance with Article 260, EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (UCC) (goods repaired free of charge).

### Goods covered:

The re-importation of compensating products obtained from goods which were temporarily exported under OP for an authorised repair carried out free of charge either for contractual or legal reasons arising from a guarantee, or because of a manufacturing defect.

### Conditions for use:

An OP authorisation, valid at the time the goods were exported under OP, is needed to use this Additional Procedure Code. This may be pre-approved (single member state or multi-state) or declaration specific (Authorisation by Customs Declaration), see conditions and requirements detailed in [Notice 3001](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code).

Suitable evidence must be retained and produced on request to demonstrate that the repair was carried out free of charge.

### Restrictions on usage:

Evidence of eligibility for customs duty relief under the Outward Processing (OP) procedure must be held.

The use of this Additional Procedure Code is subject to a valid OP authorisation being held at the time the goods were exported under OP.

Additional Procedure Code, B02, may only be used on re-importation if Additional Procedure Code B51 was used at export.

Where an extended guarantee has been purchased with the goods, or the repair is chargeable, this Additional Procedure Code must not be used.

If the goods were known to be defective at the time of initial importation (release to free circulation) and this was reflected in the Customs Valuation at the time, then the goods are not eligible to use this Additional Procedure Code.

CAP goods may not be entered to this Additional Procedure Code.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Notices:

[Notice 3001: customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

Where delivery is needed before production of the certificate of posting or details of the previous export entry have not been entered in DE 2/1 (Previous Documents), security for potential charges on the full value must be provided by deposit or guarantee.

### VAT:

Subject to the conditions laid down in [Notice 3001: customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code) being met, VAT is not chargeable on repairs carried out free of charge.

### Post clearance action:

#### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code B02 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 0121, 0721, 4221, 4422, 5121, 6122, 7122.

### Additional documents needed:

If this consignment is the second or later in a series of \xe2\x80\x98split consignments\xe2\x80\x99, the export declaration and first re-import declaration\xe2\x80\x99s MRN should be declared as a Previous Document in DE 2/1.

Documentary evidence of the identity and value of the temporarily exported goods must be retained and produced upon request.

