B03: Processed products returning after replacement under guarantee in accordance with Article 261 of the Code (standard exchange system)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Re-importation of goods after Outward Processing (OP) for processed products returning after replacement under guarantee in accordance with Article 261, EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (Union Customs Code (UCC)) (Standard Exchange System \xe2\x80\x93 SES).

### Goods covered:

Items being imported as replacement products for goods which were exported under OP, being supplied free of charge either for contractual or legal reasons arising from a guarantee, or because of a manufacturing defect.

### Conditions for use:

An OP authorisation, valid at the time the goods were exported under OP, is needed to use this Additional Procedure Code. This may be pre-approved (single member state or multi-state) see conditions and requirements detailed in [Notice 3001](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code).

When replacement products are imported under the SES with prior importation, Additional Procedure Code \xe2\x80\x9848P\xe2\x80\x99 must be declared against this goods item in DE 1/11, in addition to B03.

Suitable evidence must be retained and produced on request to customs to demonstrate that the goods were replaced under guarantee or because of a manufacturing defect.

### Restrictions on usage:

Evidence of eligibility for customs duty relief under the Outward Processing (OP) procedure must be held.

The use of this Additional Procedure Code is subject to a valid OP authorisation being held at the time the goods were exported under OP.

Additional Procedure Code, B03, may only be used on re-importation if Additional Procedure Code B52 was used at export. Where replacement goods are imported prior to the export of goods they are replacing under SES, B52 must be used for the export of the goods they have replaced.

Where an extended guarantee has been purchased with the goods, or the repair is chargeable, this Additional Procedure Code must not be used.

Replacement products must have the same eight-digit Combined Nomenclature code, the same commercial quality and the same technical characteristics as the defective goods, had the latter undergone repair i.e. this must be a like-for-like replacement rather than an upgrade.

CAP goods may not be entered to this Additional Procedure Code.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Authorisation by Customs Declaration.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Notices:

[Notice 3001: customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

When replacements are imported under the Standard Exchange System (SES) with earlier importation, security for the potential Customs Duty on the full value is needed, by deposit or guarantee. Security will be discharged when evidence is produced of the subsequent export of the goods being replaced.

Where delivery is needed before production of the certificate of posting or details of the previous export entry have not been entered in DE 2/1 (Previous Documents), security for potential charges on the full value must be provided by deposit or guarantee.

### VAT:

VAT is due on the full value of all replacement goods even if supplied free of charge.

### Post clearance action:

#### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code B03 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 0121, 0721, 4221, 4422, 5121, 6122, 7122.

### Additional documents needed:

If this consignment is the second or later in a series of \xe2\x80\x98split consignments\xe2\x80\x99, the export declaration and first re-import declaration\xe2\x80\x99s MRN should be declared as a Previous Document in DE 2/1).

Documentary evidence of the identity and value of the temporarily exported goods must be retained and produced upon request.

