B06: Processed products returning \xe2\x80\x93 VAT only
-------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Re-importation of goods after Outward Processing (OP), with VAT only relief claimed against the processed products.

### Goods covered:

Re-importation of compensating products obtained from goods which were temporarily exported under a Requested Procedure Code (DE 1/10) in the 22xx Series for which VAT only OP is claimed.

### Conditions for use:

Where VAT only OP is claimed, an OP authorisation is not required.

Goods must have been exported under a 22xx Series Requested Procedure Code in DE 1/10 to qualify for the relief at re-importation.

Evidence of eligibility for VAT only relief under Outward Processing (OP) procedure must be held.

VAT will be chargeable on any processing costs incurred whilst the goods were temporarily exported under OP unless the process was a repair free of charge.

Additional Procedure Code B06 may only be used on re-importation if Additional Procedure Code B53 or B54 was used at export.

### Restrictions on usage:

VAT relief cannot be claimed if the goods were sold while outside the European Union.

VAT relief cannot be claimed at re-import if the goods were VAT zero rated or the VAT was reclaimed at export.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Notices:

[Notice 3001: customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

Where delivery is needed before production of the certificate of posting or details of the previous export entry have not been entered in DE 2/1 (Previous Documents), security for potential charges on the full value must be provided by deposit or guarantee.

### VAT:

Subject to the conditions laid down in [Notice 3001: customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code) being met, VAT is not chargeable on repairs carried out free of charge.

### Post clearance action:

#### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code B06 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure codes (DE 1/10): 4221, 6122, 7122.

### Additional documents needed:

If this consignment is the second or later in a series of \xe2\x80\x98split consignments\xe2\x80\x99, the export declaration and first re-import declarations MRN should be declared as a Previous Document in DE 2/1).

Documentary evidence of the identity and value of the temporarily exported goods must be retained and produced upon request by customs.

   [    Contents](#contents)   Print this page       