C06: School outfits, educational materials and related household effects
------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of school outfits, educational materials and related household effects (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 21).

### Goods covered:

School outfits, educational materials and related household effects. The applicant may bring in belongings for them to wear, furnish their room or use for the purpose of their studies.

### Conditions for use:

The conditions in [Notice 5](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu) must be met:

Enter the UK to attend a school, college or university for a period of full-time study of at least 12 months.

Provide details of their course and a copy of their offer letter from the education provider with the application/ declaration.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

The student must be moving from a country outside the EU to the UK, to live in the UK whilst undertaking a period of full-time study thereby transferring their normal place of residence to the UK.

The relief does not apply to:

 * Alcoholic beverages
 * Tobacco and tobacco products
 * Commercial vehicles
 * Articles for use in the exercise of a trade or profession, other than portable instruments of the applied or liberal arts
 * Goods you have not possessed or used for at least 6 months.

This relief may only be applied for in the member state in which the applicant will be taking up residence.

Any consignments applying for relief elsewhere in the EU must not be declared to this Additional Procedure Code.

Such consignments may only be approved for relief by the destination Member State\xe2\x80\x99s own Customs Authority. These consignments should instead be sent onwards using Union Transit procedures.

### Notices:

[Notice 5: Transfer of Residence - moving to or returning to the UK from outside the EU](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Goods Manifest:

Packing lists, manifests and/or insurance documents detailing items within the consignments should be attached as appropriate, especially to identify any goods outlined above under \xe2\x80\x98Goods covered\xe2\x80\x99.

These should be declared using the relevant document codes between N235 \xe2\x80\x93 N787 as appropriate. The document codes which may be used, and their completion instructions may be found in [Appendix 5A: DE 2/3 Documents and Other Reference Codes (Union)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/data-element-23-documents-and-other-reference-codes-union-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds).

### Security required:

Security may be required as per Article 9 in CSDR Regulation 1186/2009 where any revenue due is not paid at the time of release to the Procedure. An appropriate Method of Payment code should be declared in DE 4/8 (see [Appendix 9: DE 4/8: Method of Payment Codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/method-of-payment-codes-for-data-element-48-of-the-customs-declaration-service) for details of the codes which may be used).

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C06 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

