C07: Consignments of negligible value
-------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of consignments of negligible value (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 23).

### Goods covered:

All items in a single consignment to a single recipient with an intrinsic value (i.e. excluding freight, insurance etc. charges) not exceeding \xc2\xa315.

Goods in the single consignment may be liable to Customs Duty and/or VAT, but not liable to Excise Duty, on which relief from Customs Duty only is claimed.

### Conditions for use:

The consignments must have been dispatched direct from a third country (i.e. outside the EU) to the importer in the UK to qualify for this relief.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code 1RV must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

Where a consignment consists of several items to a single recipient, the total intrinsic value of those items must not exceed \xc2\xa315 in order to qualify for relief under this Additional Procedure Code.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used:

 * For goods that are liable to Excise duty;
 * For imports of samples
 * Intended for another customs relief or regime
 * For goods subject to any prohibitions or restrictions - for example, controlled drugs, firearms and fake branded goods or labels which may be subject to intellectual property rights.

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional information (DE 2/2):



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Simplification of the drawing up of customs declaration or clearance requests for goods falling under different tariff subheadings.  
Note: The following conditions must be met in all cases in order to use this simplification:  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tgoods may not be entered to or removed from customs duty suspense  
\xe2\x80\xa2 goods may not be subject to any prohibitions or restrictions  
\xe2\x80\xa2 goods must not be subject to any licencing requirements  
\xe2\x80\xa2 claims to quota may not be made  
\xe2\x80\xa2 goods must not be subject to CAP or ADD charges  
   
Excise goods may be grouped where the following additional conditions are met:  
\xe2\x80\xa2 the goods are moving from GB to NI  
\xe2\x80\xa2 excise goods must be \xe2\x80\x98released for consumption\xe2\x80\x99/ in home use prior to dispatch from GB  
\xe2\x80\xa2 goods must not be in excise duty suspension  
\xe2\x80\xa2 excise goods must not:   
\xc2\xa0\xc2\xa0\xe2\x80\xa2\tbe liable to payment of any additional duty on entry to NI following the application of the excise [duty offset mechanism](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/moving-excise-goods-as-freight-under-the-northern-ireland-protocol-from-1-january-2021/the-duty-off-set-mechanism)   
\xc2\xa0\xc2\xa0\xe2\x80\xa2\tbe declared to a customs or excise duty suspension arrangement in NI   
Where excise goods are being included in a grouped item, GEN45 must also be declared in DE 2/2 with the AI statement text of \xe2\x80\x98Excise Goods included in grouped load\xe2\x80\x99 |  00600 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98Article 228, EU Reg. No. 2015/2447 applied\xe2\x80\x99. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed, make the declaration using Additional Procedure Code 1RV in addition to this code. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C07 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional Declaration Type B or E (DE 1/2) Modified I1 Data Set:

Additional Declaration Type B or E may be eligible for use with this Additional Procedure Code.

The modified I1 data set may not be used where any commodities subject to prohibitions, restrictions or licencing conditions are being imported, unless expressly permitted elsewhere.Additional Procedure Code C07 may only be used with a Declaration Category I1 B&E (occasional use) data set where the following conditions are met:

 * Every goods item declared on the declaration must be eligible to use a Declaration Category I1 B&E (occasional use) data set
 * The DE 1/10 Procedure Code permits the use of codes B and/or E in DE 1/2
 * All Additional Procedure Codes declared in DE 1/11 for the goods item permit the use of Declaration Category I1 B&E (occasional use)

Where Additional Declaration Types B or E are used, a simplified declaration should be submitted, as per [Appendix 21G: Declaration Category data set: Import Simplified Declaration on an occasional basis (DE 1/2 Codes B&E)](/government/publications/appendix-21-import-declaration-category-data-sets/appendix-21g-declaration-category-data-sets-i1-be). In these instances, a subsequent supplementary declaration is not required.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

