C08: Consignments sent from one private individual to another
-------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of consignments sent from one private individual to another (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 25).

### Goods covered:

Goods in small consignments of a non-commercial nature sent by from one private individual to another private individual not exceeding \xc2\xa339 to be admitted free of customs duty.

### Conditions for use:

The consignments must meet the following conditions:

 * Be of an occasional nature;
 * Contain only goods intended for personal or family use by the importer;
 * By their nature or quantity, do not indicate they are being imported for any commercial purpose;
 * Are dispatched direct from a private individual sender to a private individual recipient free of charge.
 * Single item consignments must not exceed \xc2\xa339 in value;
 * Multi-item consignments to a single recipient must not exceed \xc2\xa339 in value.

Multi-item consignments to several separate importers must not exceed \xc2\xa339 in value per importer Where several items in a single consignment, not exceeding \xc2\xa339 total intrinsic value, are sent to the single recipient, enter the commodity code for the item that attracts the highest duty rate in DE 6/14 and DE 6/15.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code 1RV must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

Excise duty relief cannot be claimed on these goods.

Relief from customs duty and/or VAT (using DE 1/11 code 1RV) is limited to consignments which do not exceed \xc2\xa339 intrinsic value (i.e. excluding freight, insurance etc. charges) per importer.

Where the consignment\xe2\x80\x99s value exceeds \xc2\xa339 per importer (recipient), customs duty and/ or VAT will be payable on the value of the goods above the \xc2\xa339 limit.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) unless the declaration is being submitted by an Indirect Representative (code \xe2\x80\x983\xe2\x80\x99 declared in DE 3/21 (Representative Status)).

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Simplification of the drawing up of customs declaration or clearance requests for goods falling under different tariff subheadings.  
Note: The following conditions must be met in all cases in order to use this simplification:  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tgoods may not be entered to or removed from customs duty suspense  
\xe2\x80\xa2 goods may not be subject to any prohibitions or restrictions  
\xe2\x80\xa2 goods must not be subject to any licencing requirements  
\xe2\x80\xa2 claims to quota may not be made  
\xe2\x80\xa2 goods must not be subject to CAP or ADD charges  
   
Excise goods may be grouped where the following additional conditions are met:  
\xe2\x80\xa2 the goods are moving from GB to NI  
\xe2\x80\xa2 excise goods must be \xe2\x80\x98released for consumption\xe2\x80\x99/ in home use prior to dispatch from GB  
\xe2\x80\xa2 goods must not be in excise duty suspension   
\xe2\x80\xa2 excise goods must not:   
\xc2\xa0\xe2\x80\xa2 be liable to payment of any additional duty on entry to NI following the application of the excise [duty offset mechanism](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/moving-excise-goods-as-freight-under-the-northern-ireland-protocol-from-1-january-2021/the-duty-off-set-mechanism)   
\xc2\xa0\xe2\x80\xa2 be declared to a customs or excise duty suspension arrangement in NI   
Where excise goods are being included in a grouped item, GEN45 must also be declared in DE 2/2 with the AI statement text of \xe2\x80\x98Excise Goods included in grouped load\xe2\x80\x99 |  00600 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98Article 228, EU Reg. No. 2015/2447 applied\xe2\x80\x99. | 
 
#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Consignment Manifest:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  N271 |  Packing list  
Note:  
For multi item consignments, attach using document code N271, a schedule listing:  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tname and address of each importer  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tdescription of contents of each package  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tcharges due for each package (with details of calculations)  
\xe2\x80\xa2\ttotal charges due |  Enter the reference number of the consignment manifest/packing list. Where a sequentially numbered range of consignment manifests/packing lists cover the goods enter the lowest to the highest reference numbers of the packing lists concerned i.e. document code + 0054037-0054047: status code. Where packing lists are not sequentially numbered enter the reference number of each packing list concerned.  
  
Use one of the following status codes (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 Document Status Codes for definitions](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)):  
 AC, AE, AF, AG, AS, AT, GE, GP, JA, JE, JS | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed, make the declaration using Additional Procedure Code 1RV in addition to this code. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C08 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

For multi item consignments a schedule listing:

 * name and address of each importer
 * description of contents of each package
 * charges due for each package (with details of calculations)
 * total charges due

must be declared using Document Code N271 in DE 2/3.

### Additional Declaration Type B or E (DE 1/2) Modified I1 Data Set:

Additional Declaration Type B or E may be eligible for use with this Additional Procedure Code.

The modified I1 data set may not be used where any commodities subject to prohibitions, restrictions or licencing conditions are being imported, unless expressly permitted elsewhere.Additional Procedure Code C08 may only be used with a Declaration Category I1 B&E (occasional use) data set where the following conditions are met:

 * Every goods item declared on the declaration must be eligible to use a Declaration Category I1 B&E (occasional use) data set
 * The DE 1/10 Procedure Code permits the use of codes B and/or E in DE 1/2
 * All Additional Procedure Codes declared in DE 1/11 for the goods item permit the use of Declaration Category I1 B&E (occasional use)

Where Additional Declaration Types B or E are used, a simplified declaration should be submitted, as per [Appendix 21G: Declaration Category data set: Import Simplified Declaration on an occasional basis (DE 1/2 Codes B&E)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/appendix-21-import-declaration-category-data-sets/appendix-21g-declaration-category-data-sets-i1-be). In these instances, a subsequent supplementary declaration is not required.

