C10: Capital goods and other equipment belonging to persons engaged in a liberal profession and to legal persons engaged in a non-profit making activity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of capital goods and other equipment belonging to persons engaged in a liberal profession and to legal persons engaged in a non-profit making activity following the cessation of activities in the third country (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 34).

### Goods covered:

Capital goods and other equipment on which relief from Customs Duty is claimed on the transfer of business to the UK of self-employed people (such as artists, poets, actors and journalists) and non-profit making organisations (such as charities or philanthropic bodies) who are transferring their activities to the UK following the cessation of activities in the third country.

Capital goods and other equipment include:

 * Office and shop equipment or machinery, and other tools of trade
 * Means of transport used for the purposes of production or for providing a service
 * Computer and other technical equipment needed to run your business
 * For agricultural non-profit activities, any livestock belonging to the non-profit.

### Conditions for use:

Use of this Additional Procedure Code constitutes a declaration that the goods:

 * Belong to a self-employed person/non-profit making organisation or business which has ceased its activity in a third country and is transferring its activity to the UK
 * Have been used by the person/non-profit making organisation or business for 12 months prior to cessation of its activity in the third country, unless a special case for exception can be made to and accepted by customs
 * Will be used for the same purpose in the UK
 * Are appropriate to the nature and size of the business
 * Are being imported within 12 months of cessation of activity in the third country, unless a special case for exception can be made to and accepted by customs

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

Where relief from Import Duty is granted the goods must not be lent, given as security, hired out or transferred whether for a consideration or free of charge, for a period of 12 months without first notifying customs.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible, to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used on:

 * Means of transport which aren\xe2\x80\x99t used for the purposes of production or for providing a service
 * Supplies of any kind intended for human consumption or for animal feed
 * Fuel and stocks of raw materials or finished or semi-finished products, including horticultural products for sale, such as plants, shrubs and seeds
 * Livestock belonging to dealers

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used to expand activities into the UK, it must be a full transfer of all activities.

### Notices:

[Notice 343: importing capital goods free of duty and VAT](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-343-importing-capital-goods-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-343-importing-capital-goods-free-of-duty-and-vat)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional information (DE 2/2):

Where the goods are imported by a Charitable Organisation, enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  For use on imports by charities free of duty and VAT. |  CCR01 |  Enter the Charities Commission or Office of the Scottish Charities Regulator Registration Number. | 
 
#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Goods Manifest:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  N271 |  Goods manifest:  
Attach a list of goods for which relief is being claimed:  
Note:  
For multi item consignments, attach using document code N271, a schedule providing a detailed description of each item covered by the declaration. |  Enter the reference number of the goods manifest/list. Where a sequentially numbered range of manifests/lists cover the goods enter the lowest to the highest reference numbers of the packing lists concerned i.e. document code + 0054037-0054047: status code. Where packing lists are not sequentially numbered enter the reference number of each packing list concerned.  
  
Use one of the following status codes (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 Document Status Codes for definitions](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds):  
AC, AE, AF, AG, AS, AT, GE, GP, JA, JE, JS | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C10 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

A list detailing the goods on which duty relief is claimed must be attached to the declaration using document code N271 in DE 2/3.

