C14: Equipment imported for non-commercial purposes by or on behalf of a scientific research establishment or organisation based outside the Union
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of equipment imported for non-commercial purposes by or on behalf of a scientific research establishment or organisation based outside the Union (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 51).

### Goods covered:

Equipment imported for non-commercial purposes by or on behalf of a scientific research establishment or organisation based in a third country to carry out international scientific research under a letter of approval issued by the National Import Reliefs Unit (NIRU) of HMRC, on which relief from Customs Duty is claimed.

### Conditions for use:

Prior approval must be granted by NIRU. The NIRU approval must be used as evidence to benefit from this relief.

Equipment must remain the property of a natural or legal person resident outside the EU during its stay in the territory of the Customs Union.

When the goods are to be subsequently disposed of at a later stage, NIRU must be informed first.

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown in [Notice 340](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-340-importing-scientific-instruments-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-340-importing-scientific-instruments-free-of-duty-and-vat).

### Restrictions on usage:

This relief is for non-commercial research/educational purposes only.

Relief from VAT can only be claimed if the goods are intended for use in medical or veterinary research, training, diagnosis or treatment.

### Notices:

[Notice 340: importing scientific instruments free of duty and VAT](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-340-importing-scientific-instruments-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-340-importing-scientific-instruments-free-of-duty-and-vat)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

The following AI statements must be included in DE 2/2:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  NIRU certificate/approval letter. |  GEN13 |  Enter the NIRU certificate/approval letter serial number. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C14 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

