C15: Laboratory animals and biological or chemical substances intended for research
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of laboratory animals and/ or biological and/ or chemical substances intended for research (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 53).

### Goods covered:

Animals specially prepared for laboratory use imported for education or scientific research for which relief from customs duty.

Certain listed biological or chemical substances for use in non-commercial education or scientific research for which relief from Customs Duty is claimed.

### Conditions for use:

To be eligible for relief, you must be either:

 * A public establishment mainly involved in education or scientific research (this can include a division of a public establishment), examples are:
  + Universities, university medical schools, schools of pharmacy or chemistry, polytechnics, colleges and similar educational establishments
  + National Health Service and teaching hospitals, including medical schools and research laboratories
  + Research laboratories of government departments, research councils and similar bodies or
 
 * A private establishment mainly involved in education or scientific research

For the import of animals for scientific research:

 * By public establishments: hold evidence showing that the animals have been specially bred or prepared for scientific use.
 * By private establishments, prior approval must be obtained from the Home Office. The Home Office approval certificate/letter must be used as evidence to benefit from this relief.

For information on how to apply for Home Office approval see [Gov.UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duty-or-vat-when-importing-animals-for-scientific-research#before-you-claim).

For biological and chemical substances imported by private establishments, prior approval must be granted by NIRU. The NIRU approval must be used as evidence to benefit from this relief.

Information is available on [Gov.UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duty-and-vat-on-substances-for-biological-and-chemical-research#what-you-can-claim-relief-on) on how to apply for NIRU approval.

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

When the goods are to be subsequently disposed of at a later stage, NIRU must be informed first.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown on **Gov.UK**LINK.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code should only be used to claim relief on goods liable to a positive (non-zero) rate of Customs Duty.

For animals, relief from VAT can only be claimed if they have been supplied free of charge.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Notices:

[Pay no import duty or VAT when importing animals for scientific research](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duty-or-vat-when-importing-animals-for-scientific-research#before-you-claim)

[Pay no import duty and VAT on substances for biological and chemical research](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duty-and-vat-on-substances-for-biological-and-chemical-research#what-you-can-claim-relief-on)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

The following AI statements must be included in DE 2/2 dependent on the circumstances:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Home Office certificate/approval letter confirming the designation of an establishment under the terms of the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986. |  GEN12 |  Enter either:  
the reference from the Home Office certificate/approval letter,  
or;  
where the goods are imported by a Public Body enter: \xe2\x80\x98Public Body\xe2\x80\x99. | 
 |  NIRU certificate/approval letter (for imports of biological and chemical substances for research). |  GEN13 |  Enter either:  
the NIRU certificate/approval letter serial number (For biological or chemical substances imported by private establishments: where different from the reference number declared above, the serial number of any NIRU issued certificate/approval letter.),  
or;  
where the goods are imported by a Public Body enter: \xe2\x80\x98Public Body\xe2\x80\x99 | 
 
#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Enter as appropriate:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  9AIV |  Evidence required by Procedure or Additional Procedure Code (DE 1/10 and DE 1/11) instructions or claiming relief from VAT. |  For animals if VAT relief is claimed: Enter the reference number of the evidence document which proves that the animals have been supplied free of charge.  
  
Use one of the following status codes, (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 document status codes for harmonised declarations](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)):  
JP \xe2\x80\x93 Evidence required is available from trader  
UP \xe2\x80\x93 Evidence required is unavailable. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C15 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053,4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

The applicant must ensure that any conditions relating to the importation of the specific items, including any prohibitions, restrictions and/ or licensing requirements are met.

