C16: Therapeutic substances of human origin and blood-grouping and tissue-typing reagents
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of therapeutic substances of human origin and blood-grouping and tissue-typing reagents (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 54).

### Goods covered:

Relief is applicable to:

 * Therapeutic substances of human origin, which means human blood and its derivatives (whole human blood, dried human plasma, human albumin and fixed solutions of human plasmic protein, human immunoglobulin and human fibrinogen)
 * Blood-grouping reagents, which means all reagents whether of human, animal, plant or other origin used for blood-type grouping and for the detection of blood incompatibilities
 * Tissue-typing reagents, which means all reagents whether of human, animal, plant or other origin used for the determination of human tissue types
 * The special packaging essential for the transport of the above goods and also any solvents and accessories needed for their use which may be included in the consignments

### Conditions for use:

To be eligible for relief, you must be either:

 * A public institution or laboratory, or
 * A private establishment approved by the Department of Health (DoH).

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown on [Gov.UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-customs-duty-or-vat-on-blood-grouping-tissue-typing-and-therapeutic-substances).

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code should only be used to claim relief on goods liable to a positive (non-zero) rate of Customs Duty.

### Notices:

[Pay no Customs Duty or VAT on blood grouping, tissue typing and therapeutic substances](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-customs-duty-or-vat-on-blood-grouping-tissue-typing-and-therapeutic-substances)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Where a Department of Health (DoH) licence has been issued enter:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  9005 |  All other import documents (including Department of Health) licences, permits or certificates other than those specifically identified by other document codes. |  Enter the country code for the country of issue (GB for the UK) followed by -  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tDepartment of Health Document - DOH and the reference number of the document  
If using more than one licence then a separate 9005 entry in DE 2/3 is required for each licence.  
  
Use one of the following status codes (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 document status codes for harmonised declarations for definitions](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)):  
AC, AE, AF, AG, AP, AS, AT, EA, EE, EL, EP, ES, GE, GP, IA, IE, IP, IS, JA, JE, JP, JS, LE, LP, SP, TP, XB, XU, XW, XX. | 
 
Where a Department of Health (DoH) approval letter for private establishments has been issued, enter:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  9AID |  Evidence required by Procedure or Additional Procedure Code (DE 1/10 and DE 1/11) instructions or claiming relief from Customs Duty. |  For private establishments: the reference number of the DoH approval letter.  
  
Use one of the following status codes, (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 document status codes for harmonised declarations](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)):  
JP \xe2\x80\x93 Evidence required is available from trader  
UP \xe2\x80\x93 Evidence required is unavailable. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C16 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053,4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

