C17: Instruments and apparatus used in medical research, establishing medical diagnoses or carrying out medical treatment
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of instruments and apparatus used in medical research, establishing medical diagnoses or carrying out medical treatment (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 57).

### Goods covered:

Relief covers:

 * Instruments and apparatus intended for medical research, establishing medical diagnosis or carrying out medical treatment
 * Spare parts, components and accessories specifically for eligible instruments and apparatus
 * Tools to be used for maintaining, checking, calibrating or repairing eligible instruments and apparatus

### Conditions for use:

Prior approval must be granted by the National Import Reliefs Unit (NIRU). The NIRU approval must be used as evidence to benefit from this relief. This Additional Procedure Code can be used to claim relief on goods liable to Customs Duty.

To be eligible for the relief, the goods must have been either:

 * Donated by a charitable or philanthropic organisation or by a private individual to health authorities, hospital departments or medical research institutions approved by the competent authorities of the Member States to receive such articles duty free, or
 * Purchased by such health authorities, hospitals or medical research institutions entirely with funds supplied by a charitable or philanthropic organisation or with voluntary contributions,

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

When the goods are to be subsequently disposed of at a later stage, NIRU must be informed first.

Please refer to the detailed conditions shown in [Notice 341](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-341-importing-donated-medical-equipment-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-341-importing-donated-medical-equipment-free-of-duty-and-vat) and [Notice 701/6](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/vat-notice-7016-charity-funded-equipment-for-medical-veterinary-etc-uses/vat-notice-7016-charity-funded-equipment-for-medical-veterinary-etc-uses).

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

The donation of the instruments or apparatus in question must not conceal any commercial intent on the part of the donor.

The donor must have no connection with the manufacturer of the instruments or apparatus for which relief is requested.

### Notices:

[Notice 341: importing donated medical equipment free of duty and VAT](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-341-importing-donated-medical-equipment-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-341-importing-donated-medical-equipment-free-of-duty-and-vat)

[VAT Notice 701/6: charity funded equipment for medical, veterinary etc. uses](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/vat-notice-7016-charity-funded-equipment-for-medical-veterinary-etc-uses/vat-notice-7016-charity-funded-equipment-for-medical-veterinary-etc-uses)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

The following AI statements must be included in DE 2/2:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  NIRU certificate/approval letter. |  GEN13 |  Enter the NIRU certificate/approval letter serial number. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C17 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053,4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

