C18: Reference substances for the quality control of medicinal products
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of reference substances approved by the World Health Organisation (WHO), for the quality control of medicinal products (Council Regulation 1186/2009, Article 59).

### Goods covered:

Consignments which contain samples of reference substances approved by the World Health Organisation (WHO) for the quality control of materials used in the manufacture of medicinal products and are addressed to importers, authorised by the competent authorities of the Member States, to receive such consignments shall qualify for import duty relief.

### Conditions for use:

This Additional Procedure Code applies only to consignments of sample reference substances approved by the World Health Organisation (WHO).

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used for reference substances that are not approved by the World Health Organisation (WHO).

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C18 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053, 4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

