C19: Pharmaceutical products used at international sports events
----------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of pharmaceutical products used at international sports events (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 60).

### Goods covered:

Pharmaceutical products for medical use by persons or animals coming from third countries to participate in international sports events on which relief from Customs Duty is claimed.

### Conditions for use:

Use of this Additional Procedure Code constitutes a declaration by the importer that the goods are solely for medical use by persons or animals coming from third countries to participate in international sports events, and are limited to the quantities necessary during their stay.

Prohibited or restricted goods may be entered to this Additional Procedure Code, but the normal importation conditions will apply, including the requirement to provide any required licences/documentation associated with the commodity code being declared in DE 6/14 \xe2\x80\x93 6/17.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Where eligible to claim excise duty relief, Additional Procedure Code 1RE must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) unless the declaration is being submitted by an Indirect Representative (code \xe2\x80\x983\xe2\x80\x99 declared in DE 3/21 (Representative Status)).

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Excise:

Where goods are liable to excise duty and are to be used for medical purposes at an international sports event, use code 1RE in DE 1/11 to provide relief from excise duty. Refer to the completion notes for Additional Procedure Code 1RE for further details.

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C19 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053, 4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

The applicant must ensure that any conditions relating to the importation of the specific items, including any prohibitions, restrictions and/ or licensing requirements are met.

