C20: Goods for charitable or philanthropic organisations - basic necessities imported by State organisations or other approved organisations
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of basic necessities for needy people by charitable, philanthropic organisations, State organisations or other approved organisations (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 61(1)(a)).

### Goods covered:

The following goods imported by an approved charitable or philanthropic organisation for which relief from Import Duty is claimed:

 * Basic necessities to meet the immediate physical needs of people (for example food, medicines, clothing, blankets) which will be distributed free of charge

Needy people are defined as those persons requiring any of the basic necessities, such as food, medicine, clothing and bed-clothes.

### Conditions for use:

Goods may be imported to this Additional Procedure Code by the following charitable and philanthropic organisations:

 * Those registered by the Charities Commission or the Office of the Scottish Charities Regulator
 * State organisations which are devoted to welfare.

The following organisations may also claim relief under this Additional Procedure Code providing they are non-profit making and as long as their objective is the welfare of the needy:

 * Hospitals
 * Youth organisations
 * Clubs, homes and hostels for the aged
 * Orphanages and children\xe2\x80\x99s homes
 * Organisations set up for the relief of distress caused by particular disasters in the customs union
 * Organisations concerned with the relief of distress generally (such as the British Red Cross Society or the Salvation Army).

Use of this Additional Procedure Code constitutes a declaration by the organisation that the goods:

 * Meet the conditions for relief, and will be used in accordance with the procedures, laid down in [Notice 317](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-317-imports-by-charities-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-317-imports-by-charities-free-of-duty-and-vat).

Will not be used for any other purpose without the prior consent of HMRC and the payment of any previously relieved customs duty and VAT. Goods imported under this Additional Procedure Code may claim customs duty relief, whether or not they have been supplied free of charge.

Goods will only qualify for VAT relief if they have been obtained free of charge by the organisation.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown in [Notice 317](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-317-imports-by-charities-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-317-imports-by-charities-free-of-duty-and-vat).

### Restrictions on usage:

The following goods are not eligible for relief:

 * Alcoholic products (including alcohol based perfume)
 * Tobacco and tobacco products
 * Coffee and tea
 * Motor vehicles other than ambulances
 * Items associated solely with worship such as statues and pulpits
 * Any goods whose importation would give rise to abuse or major distortion of competition. HMRC may therefore limit the quantities or kinds of goods which you can import

### Notices:

[Notice 317: imports by charities free of duty and VAT](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-317-imports-by-charities-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-317-imports-by-charities-free-of-duty-and-vat)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Where the goods are imported by a charitable organisation enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  For use on imports by charities free of duty and VAT. |  CCR01 |  Enter the Charities Commission or Office of the Scottish Charities Regulator Registration Number. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

Goods may only claim VAT relief if they have been obtained free of charge by the organisation.

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C20 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053, 4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

