C21: Articles in Annex III to Regulation (EC) No. 1186/2009, intended for the blind
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of articles in Annex III to Regulation (EC) No. 1186/2009, intended for the blind (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 66).

### Goods covered:

Articles specially designed for the educational, scientific or cultural advancement of blind persons as specified in Annex III of Regulation (EC) No. 1186/2009 (printed matter, printed in relief for the blind and partially sighted) on which relief from Customs Duty is claimed under a certificate issued by National Import Reliefs Unit (NIRU).

### Conditions for use:

The goods must be designed for the educational, scientific or cultural advancement of blind persons. The goods must be for the use of blind or partially sighted persons.

This Additional Procedure Code is for the non-commercial importation of goods intended for the blind.

The goods covered by this Additional Procedure Code must be classified in chapter 4911.

Prior approval must be granted by NIRU. The NIRU approval must be used as evidence to benefit from this relief.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown in [Notice 371](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat) and [Notice 701/7](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/vat-notice-7017-vat-reliefs-for-disabled-people/vat-notice-7017-vat-reliefs-for-disabled-and-older-people).

### Restrictions on usage:

If the goods are to be subsequently disposed of at a later stage, NIRU must first be informed.

### Notices:

[Notice 371: importing goods for disabled people free of duty and VAT](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat)

[VAT Notice 701/7: VAT reliefs for disabled and older people](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/vat-notice-7017-vat-reliefs-for-disabled-people/vat-notice-7017-vat-reliefs-for-disabled-and-older-people)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

The following AI statements must be included in DE 2/2:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Enter the NIRU certificate/approval letter serial number. |  GEN13 |  Enter the NIRU certificate/approval letter serial number. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C21 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053, 4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

