C22: Articles in Annex IV to Regulation (EC) No. 1186/2009, intended for the blind imported by blind persons themselves for their own use (including spare parts, components, accessories and tools)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of articles in Annex IV to Regulation (EC) No. 1186/2009, intended for the blind imported by blind persons themselves or their nominated carer for the blind person\xe2\x80\x99s own use (including spare parts, components, accessories and tools) (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Articles 67(1)(a) and 67(2)).

### Goods covered:

Goods specially designed for the educational, scientific or cultural advancement of blind persons, imported by the blind person or their nominated carer for the blind person\xe2\x80\x99s own use, on which relief from Customs Duty is claimed under a certificate issued by the National Import Reliefs Unit (NIRU).

### Conditions for use:

The goods must be designed for the educational, scientific or cultural advancement of blind persons The goods must be for the personal use of the blind or partially sighted person.

Prior approval must be granted by NIRU. The NIRU approval must be used as evidence to benefit from this relief.

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

When the goods are to be subsequently disposed of at a later stage, NIRU must be informed first.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown in [Notice 371](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat) and [701/7](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/vat-notice-7017-vat-reliefs-for-disabled-people/vat-notice-7017-vat-reliefs-for-disabled-and-older-people).

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code is can only be used by the blind person or their nominated carer.

Articles imported duty-free may not be lent, hired out or transferred, whether for a consideration or free of charge, without prior notification thereof to the competent authorities.

Imports for institutions or organisations that are principally engaged in the education of or the provision of assistance to the blind should use Additional Procedure Code C23 instead.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) unless the declaration is being submitted by an Indirect Representative (code \xe2\x80\x983\xe2\x80\x99 declared in DE 3/21 (Representative Status)).

### Notices:

[Notice 371: importing goods for disabled people free of duty and VAT](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat)

[VAT Notice 701/7: VAT reliefs for disabled and older people](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/vat-notice-7017-vat-reliefs-for-disabled-people/vat-notice-7017-vat-reliefs-for-disabled-and-older-people)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

The following AI statements must be included in DE 2/2:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  NIRU certificate/approval letter |  GEN13 |  Enter the NIRU certificate/approval letter serial number. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C22 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

