C24: Articles intended for other handicapped persons (other than blind persons) imported by handicapped persons themselves for their own use (including spare parts, components, accessories and tools)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of articles, intended for other handicapped persons (other than blind persons) imported by handicapped persons themselves or their carers for the handicapped person\xe2\x80\x99s own use (including spare parts, components, accessories and tools) (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Articles 68(1)(a) and 68(2)).

### Goods covered:

Goods specially designed for use by disabled people (other than blind or partially sighted) and imported by those individuals, or their nominated carers, for the sole use of the disabled person on which relief from Customs Duty is claimed under a certificate issued by the National Import Reliefs Unit (NIRU).

### Goods for disabled people:

 * Purpose-made items and equipment, specifically designed for the sole use of the disabled person, to assist them in their ability to carry out everyday activities
 * Purpose-made items and equipment, specifically designed for the sole use of the disabled person, to assist them in everyday mobility, but not to be used for standard generic wheelchairs and mobility light vehicles, or for motor vehicles or other methods of transport that have not already been specifically adapted for the sole use of the disabled person
 * Other specifically designed items and equipment for the sole use of the disabled person, to assist them in vocational pursuits
 * Teaching aids and apparatus specifically designed for use by people who are disabled
 * Table games and accessories specially adapted or designed for people who are disabled
 * All other articles specially designed to be of educational, scientific or cultural help to people who are disabled
 * Spare parts, components, tools and accessories specially or recognisably intended for any of the above goods

### Conditions for use:

The goods must be for the personal use of the disabled person.

Prior approval must be granted by NIRU The NIRU approval must be used as evidence to benefit from this relief.

When the goods are to be subsequently disposed of at a later stage, NIRU must be informed first.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown in [Notice 371](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat) and [Notice 701/7](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/vat-notice-7017-vat-reliefs-for-disabled-people/vat-notice-7017-vat-reliefs-for-disabled-and-older-people).

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code can only be used by the disabled person or their nominated carer.

Articles imported duty-free may not be lent, hired out or transferred, whether for a consideration or free of charge, without prior notification thereof to the competent authorities.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) unless the declaration is being submitted by an Indirect Representative (code \xe2\x80\x983\xe2\x80\x99 declared in DE 3/21 (Representative Status)).

### Notices:

[Notice 371: importing goods for disabled people free of duty and VAT](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat)

[VAT Notice 701/7: VAT reliefs for disabled and older people](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/vat-notice-7017-vat-reliefs-for-disabled-people/vat-notice-7017-vat-reliefs-for-disabled-and-older-people)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

The following AI statements must be included in DE 2/2:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  NIRU certificate/approval letter |  GEN13 |  Enter the NIRU certificate/approval letter serial number. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C24 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

