C25: Articles intended for other handicapped persons (other than blind persons) imported by certain institutions or organisations (including spare parts, components, accessories and tools)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of articles, intended for other handicapped persons (other than blind persons) imported by certain institutions or organisations (including spare parts, components, accessories and tools) (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Articles 68(1)(b) and 68(2)).

### Goods covered:

Goods specifically designed for use by disabled people (other than blind or partially sighted) and imported from the special territories or countries having a Customs Union with the EU, imported by an organisation involved with the education of, or provision for, such people on which relief from Customs Duty is claimed under a certificate issued by the National Import Reliefs Unit (NIRU) .

### Conditions for use:

Use of this Additional Procedure Code constitutes a declaration by the organisation that:

 * The goods meet the conditions for relief, and will be used in accordance with the procedures laid down in [Notice 371](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat)
 * The goods won\xe2\x80\x99t be used for any other purpose without the prior consent of HMRC and the payment of previously relieved customs duty and VAT as appropriate

This Additional Procedure Code is for the non-commercial use of institutions in support of, and distribution to, disabled persons.

Prior approval must be granted by NIRU. The NIRU approval must be used as evidence to benefit from this relief.

Goods imported under this Additional Procedure Code may claim customs duty relief, whether or not they have been supplied free of charge.

Goods will only qualify for VAT relief if they have been obtained free of charge by the organisation.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown in [Notice 371](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat) and [Notice 701/7](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/vat-notice-7017-vat-reliefs-for-disabled-people/vat-notice-7017-vat-reliefs-for-disabled-and-older-people).

### Restrictions on usage:

The goods must be for the use of institutions or organisations that are principally engaged in the education of or the provision of assistance to handicapped persons.

Goods imported for the personal use of a disabled person should use Additional Procedure Code C24.

### Notices:

[Notice 371: importing goods for disabled people free of duty and VAT](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-371-importing-goods-for-disabled-people-free-of-duty-and-vat)

[VAT Notice 701/7: VAT reliefs for disabled and older people](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/vat-notice-7017-vat-reliefs-for-disabled-people/vat-notice-7017-vat-reliefs-for-disabled-and-older-people)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion

#### Additional information (DE 2/2):

The following AI statements must be included in DE 2/2:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  NIRU certificate/approval letter |  GEN13 |  Enter the NIRU certificate/approval letter serial number. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C25 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053, 4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

