C26: Goods imported for the benefit of disaster victims
-------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of goods imported for the benefit of disaster victims (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 74).

### Goods covered:

Goods for the benefit of victims of a disaster affecting the territory of the Customs Union or territories with which it has formed a customs union, imported by an approved charitable or philanthropic organization or disaster relief agency for which relief from Customs Duty is claimed.

### Conditions for use:

The goods must be:

 * For distribution free of charge to the victims of such a disaster
 * To be made available free of charge to the victims whilst remaining the property of the organization
 * To meet the needs of the disaster relief agency

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown in [Notice 317](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-317-imports-by-charities-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-317-imports-by-charities-free-of-duty-and-vat).

### Restrictions on usage:

Relief cannot be claimed on materials and equipment intended for rebuilding disaster areas.

Relief is subject to the EU Commission granting approval after a request by the Member State or Territory affected by the disaster.

Pending commission approval, goods may be entered to this Additional Procedure Code and released duty free on the understanding that if relief is subsequently not granted, customs duty will become payable by the organisation or agency.

### Notices:

[Notice 317: imports by charities free of duty and VAT](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-317-imports-by-charities-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-317-imports-by-charities-free-of-duty-and-vat)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C26 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053, 4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

HMRC may ask the declarant to provide official authorisation from any lead responders coordinating disaster responses.

