C28: Goods imported into the customs territory of the Union by persons who have paid an official visit to a third country and who have received them on this occasion as gifts from the host authorities
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of goods imported into the territory of the Customs Union by persons who have paid an official visit to a third country and who have received the items as gifts from the host authorities during their visit (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 82(a)).

### Goods covered:

Goods imported by EU residents returning from a representative visit of some international significance outside the EU, having been presented with the goods during the visit.

### Conditions for use:

Evidence must be held as to the circumstances of the importation in the form of a letter from the donor, correspondence, press publicity etc. The reference details of the evidence must be provided in DE 2/3 (Document Codes), see below.

Where evidence is not available a written declaration from the receiver as to the circumstances of the importation must be attached. The reference details of the written declaration must be provided in DE 2/3 (Document Codes), see below.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

Goods imported under this Additional Procedure Code must not:

 * Reflect any commercial interest or be put to any commercial purpose
 * Be gifts between representatives of business firms or trading bodies
 * Be gifts from overseas traders to trade delegations
 * Occur more than twice per year between the same donor and recipient
 * Any alcohol or tobacco products

Goods imported by persons on official visits to the UK where those goods will be offered as gifts to host should be declared using Additional Procedure Code C54.

Gifts being sent an EU official body, public authority or group, carrying on an activity in the public interest from a representative of a similar official body in a third country should be declared using Additional Procedure Code C55.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) unless the declaration is being submitted by an Indirect Representative (code \xe2\x80\x983\xe2\x80\x99 declared in DE 3/21 (Representative Status)).

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

The following Document Codes may be required:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  9AID |  Evidence required by Additional Procedure Code (DE 1/11) C28 instructions for claiming relief: Gifts received on an official visit overseas |  Where evidence held (for example, letter from the donor, correspondence, press publicity, etc.): Enter the reference details of the evidence.  
  
Where evidence is not held: Enter the reference details of the written declaration from the recipient of the goods.  
  
Use one of the following status codes, (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 document status codes for harmonised declarations](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)):  
JP \xe2\x80\x93 Evidence required is available from trader  
UP \xe2\x80\x93 Evidence required is unavailable. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C28 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

