C29: Goods to be used by monarchs or heads of state
---------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of goods to be used by monarchs or heads of state (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 85).

### Goods covered:

Gifts sent to heads of foreign states; or goods imported by or on behalf of heads of foreign states by persons officially representing them for their use or consumption during an official stay in the UK on which relief from Customs Duty is claimed.

### Conditions for use:

Evidence must be held as to the circumstances of the importation in the form of a letter from the consignor, donor, correspondence, press publicity etc. The reference details of the evidence must be provided in DE 2/3 (Document Codes), see below.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

Where evidence is not held at the time of importation, the appropriate status code must be declared in DE 2/3 (Status Code UP) to state that the evidence is unavailable.

The Importer or Representative may be requested to submit the missing evidence post-clearance to support the claim to relief. Where this cannot be supplied a demand for the relieved customs duty and/ or VAT may be issued.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) unless the declaration is being submitted by an Indirect Representative (code \xe2\x80\x983\xe2\x80\x99 declared in DE 3/21 (Representative Status)).

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

The specific document code references detailed below must be declared:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  9AID |  Evidence required by Additional Procedure Code (DE 1/11) C29 instructions for claiming relief:  
Gifts to be used by Monarchs of Heads of State |  Enter the reference details of the evidence: for example, letter from the consignor, donor, correspondence, press publicity, etc.   
  
Use one of the following status codes, (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 Document Status Codes](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)):  
JP \xe2\x80\x93 Evidence required is available from trader  
UP \xe2\x80\x93 Evidence required is unavailable. | 
 
### Security required

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C29 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

