C30: Samples of goods of negligible value imported for trade promotion purposes
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of samples of goods of negligible value imported for trade promotion purposes (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 86).

### Goods covered:

Commercial samples of goods properly prepared prior to import, so that the customs authority may deem them to be of negligible value, (for example swatches, mutilated articles and single gloves), sent with the sole purpose to gain orders for similar goods and on which relief from import duty is claimed.

HMRC define a \xe2\x80\x98commercial sample\xe2\x80\x99 as an imported item that can only be used in the UK as a demonstration sample of goods in soliciting orders for the types of goods they represent from potential customers of that product.

### Conditions for use:

Goods may be entered to this customs procedure provided they can only be used to solicit orders of a type represented by the samples.

Where several different samples are being imported, these may be eligible to be declared against a single goods description/goods item on the customs declaration, enter the commodity code which attracts the highest duty rate in DE 6/14 \xe2\x80\x93 6/17, combined with AI Statement Code 00600 in DE 2/2.

Prohibited or restricted goods may be entered to this Additional Procedure Code, but the normal importation conditions will apply, including the requirement to provide any required licences/documentation associated with the commodity code being declared in DE 6/14 \xe2\x80\x93 6/17

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Any Excise Duty must be paid at importation.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown in [Notice 372](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-372-importing-commercial-samples-free-of-duty-and-vat).

### Restrictions on usage:

See [Notice 372](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-372-importing-commercial-samples-free-of-duty-and-vat) for all exclusions.

This Additional Procedure Code does not provide relief from Excise Duty.

Goods subject to prohibitions or restrictions may not use the bulking arrangements described in DE 2/2 AI code 00600.

The modified I1 Type B&E data set may not be used where any commodities subject to prohibitions, restrictions or licencing conditions are being imported.

### Notices:

[Notice 372: importing commercial samples free of duty and VAT](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-372-importing-commercial-samples-free-of-duty-and-vat).

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

This use of this simplification must comply with the conditions specified in the table below:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Simplification of the drawing up of customs declaration or clearance requests for goods falling under different tariff subheadings.  
Note: The following conditions must be met in all cases in order to use this simplification:  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tgoods may not be entered to or removed from customs duty suspense  
\xe2\x80\xa2 goods may not be subject to any prohibitions or restrictions  
\xe2\x80\xa2 goods must not be subject to any licencing requirements  
\xe2\x80\xa2 claims to quota may not be made  
\xe2\x80\xa2 goods must not be subject to CAP or ADD charges  
   
Excise goods may be grouped where the following additional conditions are met:  
\xe2\x80\xa2 the goods are moving from GB to NI  
\xe2\x80\xa2 excise goods must be \xe2\x80\x98released for consumption\xe2\x80\x99/ in home use prior to dispatch from GB  
\xe2\x80\xa2 goods must not be in excise duty suspension   
\xe2\x80\xa2 excise goods on which UK duty has been paid must not:   
\xc2\xa0\xe2\x80\xa2 be liable to payment of any additional duty on entry to NI following the application of the excise [duty offset mechanism](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/moving-excise-goods-as-freight-under-the-northern-ireland-protocol-from-1-january-2021/the-duty-off-set-mechanism)   
\xc2\xa0\xe2\x80\xa2 be declared to a customs or excise duty suspension arrangement in NI   
Where excise goods are being included in a grouped item, GEN45 must also be declared in DE 2/2 with the AI statement text of \xe2\x80\x98Excise Goods included in grouped load\xe2\x80\x99 |  00600 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98Article 228, EU Reg. No. 2015/2447 applied\xe2\x80\x99. | 
 
### Security required

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C30 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053, 4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

The applicant must ensure that any conditions relating to the importation of the specific items, including any prohibitions, restrictions or licensing are met.

### Additional Declaration Type B or E (DE 1/2) Modified I1 Data Set:

Additional Declaration Type B or E may be eligible for use with this Additional Procedure Code.

The modified I1 data set may not be used where any commodities subject to prohibitions, restrictions or licencing conditions are being imported, unless expressly permitted elsewhere.

Additional Procedure Code C30 may only be used with a Declaration Category I1 B&E (occasional use) data set where the following conditions are met:

 * Every goods item declared on the declaration must be eligible to use a Declaration Category I1 B&E (occasional use) data set
 * The DE 1/10 Procedure Code permits the use of codes B and/or E in DE 1/2
 * All Additional Procedure Codes declared in DE 1/11 for the goods item permit the use of Declaration Category I1 B&E (occasional use)

Where Additional Declaration Types B or E are used, a simplified declaration should be submitted, as per [Appendix 21G: Declaration Category data set: Import Simplified Declaration on an occasional basis (DE 1/2 Codes B&E)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/appendix-21-import-declaration-category-data-sets/appendix-21g-declaration-category-data-sets-i1-be). In these instances, a subsequent supplementary declaration is not required.

