C31: Printed advertising matter
-------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of printed advertising matter (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 87).

### Goods covered:

Printed advertising material such as catalogues, price lists, directions for use or brochures on which relief from Customs Duty is claimed.

The material must relate to:

 * Goods for sale or hire;
 * Transport, commercial insurance or banking services offered by a person established outside the territory of the Customs Union.

### Conditions for use:

The name of the person producing, selling or hiring the goods, or offering the services advertised must be clearly shown, and that person must be based outside the EU.

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown on [Gov.uk](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-and-vat-on-miscellaneous-documents-and-related-articles).

### Restrictions on usage:

Printed advertising material cannot be bulked from one sender to a single recipient for relief purposes.

Each consignment must contain no more than one document or a single copy of each document if it is made up of several documents.

Consignments comprising several copies of the same document may still be eligible for relief, provided their total gross weight does not exceed one kilogram.

This Additional Procedure Code should only be used to claim relief on goods liable to a positive (non-zero) rate of Customs Duty.

See information on [Gov.UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-and-vat-on-miscellaneous-documents-and-related-articles) for all exclusions.

Goods for advertising purposes, sent free of charge should be declared using Additional Procedure Code C56

### Notices:

[Pay no import duties and VAT on miscellaneous documents and related articles](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-and-vat-on-miscellaneous-documents-and-related-articles)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Bulking of consignments of documents only, where these goods are not subject to any import prohibitions and restrictions.  
Use of this code also requires:  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe Manifest Reference as a Previous Document Type in DE 2/1 using code N271 and  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe number of packages for each goods item in DE 6/10 (item level) and the total number of packages in DE 6/18 (at header level). |  BULKD |  Enter the total value of the goods in GBP. | 
 
#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Enter:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  N271 |  Goods manifest:  
Attach a list of goods for which relief is being claimed:  
Note:  
For multi item consignments, attach using document code N271, a schedule providing a detailed description of each item covered by the declaration |  Enter the reference number of the goods manifest/list. Where a sequentially numbered range of manifests/lists cover the goods enter the lowest to the highest reference numbers of the packing lists concerned i.e. document code + 0054037-0054047: status code. Where packing lists are not sequentially numbered enter the reference number of each packing list concerned.  
  
Use one of the following status codes (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 Document Status Codes for definitions](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)):  
AC, AE, AF, AG, AS, AT, GE, GP, JA, JE, JS | 
 |  9AID |  Evidence required by Additional Procedure Code (DE 1/11) C31: instructions for claiming relief on Printed Matter |  Enter the name of the person producing, selling or hiring the goods, or offering the services advertised.  
  
Use status code:  
JP \xe2\x80\x93 Evidence required is available from trader. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C31 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053,4054 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

