C33: Goods imported for examination, analysis or test purposes
--------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of goods imported for examination, analysis or test purposes (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 95).

### Goods covered:

Goods imported to undergo examination, analysis or tests to determine their composition, quality or other technical characteristics for the purposes of information or industrial or commercial research, and for which relief from Customs Duty and CAP charges are claimed.

### Conditions for use:

The use of this Additional Procedure Code constitutes a declaration by the importer that the goods are being entered for free circulation:

 * To undergo examination, analysis or test to determine their composition, quality or other technical characteristics for the purposes of information, or industrial or commercial research or
 * To test machines for making/packing tobacco products
 * That if any of the declared goods are not used up or destroyed in the course of the tests they will be disposed of only as specifically allowed by NIRU.

Only those Excise goods required to test machines for making/packing tobacco products are eligible for relief from excise duty.

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown in [Notice 374](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-374-importing-goods-for-test-free-of-duty-and-vat).

### Restrictions on usage:

As defined in Council Regulation 1186/2009 Articles 96 - 101:

The quantity of imported goods must be restricted to only that needed to conduct the tests and is limited to only those goods directly consumed in the testing process.

Goods used in examination, analysis or tests which in themselves constitute sales promotion operations shall not enjoy relief.

Products remaining after testing (including products produced by the examination, analysis or tests) must be:

 * Completely destroyed or rendered commercially valueless on completion of examination, analysis or testing; or
 * Surrendered to the state without causing it any expense, where this is possible under national law; or
 * In duly justified circumstances, exported outside the territory of the Customs Union.
 * Otherwise they will be subject to the relevant import duties at the rate applying on the date of completion of the examinations, analyses or tests, on the basis of the type of goods and the customs value ascertained or accepted on that date by the competent authorities.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Where eligible goods are claiming excise duty relief, Additional Procedure Code 1RE must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Relief from Excise Duty is not available for the following and Excise Duty must be paid on them.

 * Goods to be consumed by a person taking part in the tests
 * Petrol or petrol substitutes
 * Heavy oil for use as road fuel

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Notices:

[Notice 374: importing goods for test free of duty and VAT](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-374-importing-goods-for-test-free-of-duty-and-vat)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

The following AI statement must be included in DE 2/2:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Goods for test. Approval note from NIRU attached. |  GEN16 |  Enter the month and year tests are expected to be completed. For example: 01/06. | 
 
#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Only required where excise duty relief is claimed for goods consumed in the testing process, enter in DE 2/3:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  9AIE |  Evidence required by Additional Procedure Code (DE 1/11) C33: Excise goods consumed in tests, relief from Excise Duty. |  Enter the:  
\xe2\x80\xa2\ttype and quantity of goods to be consumed  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tthe type of tests to be performed  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tfollowed by status code \xe2\x80\x98JP\xe2\x80\x99 | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Excise

Where eligible goods are claiming excise duty relief, Additional Procedure Code 1RE must also be declared in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare all codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

When using 1RE in conjunction with C33, AI code RED01 will be required in DE 2/2 and document code 9AIE will be required in DE 2/3.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C33 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053,4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

