C34: Consignments, sent to organisations protecting copyrights or industrial and commercial patent rights
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of consignments, sent to organisations protecting copyrights or industrial and commercial patent rights (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 102).

### Goods covered:

Trademarks, patterns or designs and their supporting documents, as well as applications for patents for invention or the like, to be submitted to the bodies competent to deal with the protection of copyrights or the protection of industrial or commercial patent rights on which relief from customs duties is claimed.

See information on [Gov.UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-and-vat-on-miscellaneous-documents-and-related-articles) for goods covered.

### Conditions for use:

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown on [Gov.UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-and-vat-on-miscellaneous-documents-and-related-articles).

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code should only be used to claim relief on goods liable to a positive (non-zero) rate of Customs Duty.

### Notices:

[Pay no import duties and VAT on miscellaneous documents and related articles](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-and-vat-on-miscellaneous-documents-and-related-articles)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C34 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053,4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

