C35: Tourist Information literature
-----------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of tourist information literature (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 103).

### Goods covered:

The following Tourist Information Literature may claim import duty relief under this Additional Procedure Code:

 *  Documentation (leaflets, brochures, books, magazines, guidebooks, posters whether or not framed, unframed photographs and photographic enlargements, maps whether or not illustrated, window transparencies, and illustrated calendars) intended to be distributed free of charge and the principal purpose of which is to encourage the public to visit foreign countries, in particular in order to attend cultural, tourist, sporting, religious or trade or professional meetings or events, provided that such literature contains not more than 25 % of private commercial advertising matter, excluding all private commercial advertising for Union established firms, and that the general nature of its promotional aims is evident;


 * Foreign hotel lists and yearbooks published by the official tourist agencies, or under their auspices, and timetables for foreign transport services, where such literature is intended to be distributed free of charge and contains not more than 25 % of private commercial advertising, excluding all private commercial advertising for Union established firms;
 * Reference material supplied to accredited representatives or correspondents appointed by official national tourist agencies and not intended for distribution, namely yearbooks, lists of telephone or telex numbers, hotel lists, fairs catalogues, specimens of craft goods of negligible value, and literature on museums, universities, spas or other similar establishments.

See information on [Gov.UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-and-vat-on-miscellaneous-documents-and-related-articles) for goods covered.

### Conditions for use:

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown on [Gov.UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-and-vat-on-miscellaneous-documents-and-related-articles).

### Restrictions on usage:

Printed advertising material cannot be bulked from one sender to a single recipient for relief purposes.

This Additional Procedure Code should only be used to claim relief on goods liable to a positive (non-zero) rate of Customs Duty.

### Notices:

[Pay no import duties and VAT on miscellaneous documents and related articles](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-and-vat-on-miscellaneous-documents-and-related-articles)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Bulking of consignments of documents only, where these goods are not subject to any import prohibitions and restrictions.  
Use of this code also requires:  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe Manifest Reference as a Previous Document Type in DE 2/1 using code N271 and  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe number of packages for each goods item in DE 6/10 (item level) and the total number of packages in DE 6/18 (at header level). |  BULKD |  Enter the total value of the goods in GBP. | 
 
#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

The following Document Codes may be required:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  N271 |  Goods manifest:  
Attach a list of goods for which relief is being claimed:  
Note:  
For multi item consignments, attach using document code N271, a schedule providing a detailed description of each item covered by the declaration. |  Enter the reference number of the goods manifest/list. Where a sequentially numbered range of manifests/lists cover the goods enter the lowest to the highest reference numbers of the packing lists concerned i.e. document code + 0054037-0054047: status code. Where packing lists are not sequentially numbered enter the reference number of each packing list concerned.  
  
Use one of the following status codes (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 Document Status Codes for definitions](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)):  
AC, AE, AF, AG, AS, AT, GE, GP, JA, JE, JS | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C35 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053,4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

