C36: Miscellaneous documents and articles
-----------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of miscellaneous documents and articles (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 104).

### Goods covered:

The following types of documents and articles may be imported with a claim to duty relief using this Additional Procedure Code:

 * Documents sent free of charge to the public services of Member States;
 * Publications of foreign governments and publications of official international bodies intended for distribution without charge;
 * Ballot papers for elections organised by bodies set up in third countries;
 * Objects to be submitted as evidence or for like purposes to the courts or other official agencies of the Member States;
 * Specimen signatures and printed circulars concerning signatures sent as part of customary exchanges of information between public services or banking establishments;
 * Official printed matter sent to the central banks of the Member States;
 * Reports, statements, notes, prospectuses, application forms and other documents drawn up by companies registered in a third country and sent to the bearers or subscribers of securities issued by such companies;
 * Recorded media (punched cards, sound recordings, microfilms, etc.) Used for the transmission of information sent free of charge to the addressee, in so far as duty-free admission does not give rise to abuses or to major distortions of competition;
 * Files, archives, printed forms and other documents to be used in international meetings, conferences or congresses, and reports on such gatherings;
 * Plans, technical drawings, traced designs, descriptions and other similar documents imported with a view to obtaining or fulfilling orders in third countries or to participating in a competition held in the territory of the Customs Union;
 * Documents to be used in examinations held in the territory of the Customs Union by institutions set up in third countries;
 * Printed forms to be used as official documents in the international movement of vehicles or goods, within the framework of international conventions;
 * Printed forms, labels, tickets and similar documents sent by transport undertakings or by undertakings of the hotel industry in a third country to travel agencies set up in the customs territory of the Customs Union;
 * Printed forms and tickets, bills of lading, way-bills and other commercial or office documents which have been used;
 * Official printed forms from third country or international authorities, and printed matter conforming to international standards sent for distribution by third country associations to corresponding associations located in the territory of the Customs Union;
 * Photographs, slides and stereotype mats for photographs, whether or not captioned, sent to press agencies or newspaper or magazine publishers;
 * Tax and similar stamps proving payment of charges in third countries.

See information on [Gov.UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-and-vat-on-miscellaneous-documents-and-related-articles) for goods covered.

### Conditions for use:

Share and Bond Certificates:

This Additional Procedure Code may only be used for valid, issued share and bond certificates drawn up by the companies registered in a third country and sent direct to the bearer or subscriber.

The value declared for the imported bonds and securities (DE 4/14 (Item Price/Amount) and DE 8/6 (Statistical Value) should be the paper value of the bonds or securities and not the issued face value.

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown on [Gov.UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-and-vat-on-miscellaneous-documents-and-related-articles).

### Restrictions on usage:

Share and Bond Certificates:

This Additional Procedure Code must not be used for share and bond certificates that need registration by the fiscal agent before becoming valid.

This Additional Procedure Code should only be used to claim relief on goods liable to a positive (non-zero) rate of Customs Duty.

### Notices:

[Pay no import duties and VAT on miscellaneous documents and related articles](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-and-vat-on-miscellaneous-documents-and-related-articles)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Bulking of consignments of documents only, where these goods are not subject to any import prohibitions and restrictions.  
Use of this code also requires:  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe Manifest Reference as a Previous Document Type in DE 2/1 using code N271 and  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe number of packages for each goods item in DE 6/10 (item level) and the total number of packages in DE 6/18 (at header level). |  BULKD |  Enter the total value of the goods in GBP. | 
 
#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Enter:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  N271 |  Goods manifest:  
Attach a list of goods for which relief is being claimed:  
Note:  
For multi item consignments, attach using document code N271, a schedule providing a detailed description of each item covered by the declaration. |  Enter the reference number of the goods manifest/list. Where a sequentially numbered range of manifests/lists cover the goods enter the lowest to the highest reference numbers of the packing lists concerned i.e. document code + 0054037-0054047: status code. Where packing lists are not sequentially numbered enter the reference number of each packing list concerned.  
  
Use one of the following status codes (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 Document Status Codes for definitions](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)):  
AC, AE, AF, AG, AS, AT, GE, GP, JA, JE, JS | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C36 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053, 4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

