C37: Ancillary materials for the stowage and protection of goods during their transport
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of various materials such as rope, straw, cloth, paper and cardboard, wood and plastics which are used for the stowage and protection \xe2\x80\x93 including heat protection \xe2\x80\x93 of goods during their transport from a third country to the territory of the Customs Union, not normally reusable, shall be admitted free of import duties. (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 105).

### Goods covered:

Materials such as rope, straw, cloth, paper and cardboard, wood and plastics which are used for the stowage and protection, including heat protection, of goods during their transport from a third country to the territory of the Customs Union, not normally reusable.

### Conditions for use:

The materials such as rope, straw, cloth, paper and cardboard, wood and plastics must be imported with the goods they are being used to stow or protect.

The ancillary materials claiming this relief must be declared as goods, in their own right, under this Additional Procedure Code.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

Materials used in the stowage and protection of imported goods must comply with all prohibitions and restrictions, in particular those related to plant heath controls.

This Additional Procedure Code should only be used to claim relief on goods liable to a positive (non-zero) rate of Customs Duty.

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C37 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000,

### Additional documents needed:

The applicant must ensure that any conditions relating to the importation of the ancillary materials, including any prohibitions, restrictions or licensing are met.

