C38: Litter, Fodder and Feeding Stuffs for Animals During Their Transport
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of litter, fodder and feeding stuffs of any description put on board the means of transport used to convey animals from a third country to the territory of the Customs Union for the purpose of distribution to the said animals during the journey shall be admitted free of import duties. (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 106).

### Goods covered:

Litter, fodder and feeding stuffs distributed to the animals during their journey to the EU.

### Conditions for use:

Litter, fodder and feeding stuffs must be suitable for the animals being transported and must be in quantities which could reasonably be expended during the journey.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code must not be used to declare the animals being transported.Additional Procedure Code C38 is not to be used for general imports of litter, fodder or feeding stuffs.

Litter, fodder and feeding stuffs must comply with all prohibitions and restrictions, in particular those related to animal and plant heath controls.

This Additional Procedure Code should only be used to claim relief on goods liable to a positive (non-zero) rate of Customs Duty.

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C38 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000

### Additional documents needed:

The applicant must ensure that any conditions relating to the importation of the litter, fodder and feeding stuffs, including any prohibitions, restrictions or licensing are met.

