C39: Fuel and lubricants present in land motor vehicles and special containers
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Fuel contained in the standard or portable tanks of private and commercial motor vehicles and motor cycles.

Fuel contained in special containers (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 107).

### Goods covered:

Fuel contained in the standard or portable tanks of private motor vehicles or motor cycles up to a maximum of 10 litres per vehicle.

Fuel contained in special containers or the standard tanks of commercial vehicles up to a maximum of 200 litres per vehicle/ container per journey.

### Conditions for Use:

The fuel and lubricants must only be used in the vehicle in which they were imported.

Standard or portable tanks for private motor vehicles and motor cycles:

 * Fuel and lubricants up to a maximum of 10 litres per vehicle may claim import duty relief.

Special containers and commercial vehicles standard tanks:

 * Fuel and lubricants up to a maximum of 200 litres per vehicle/ container per journey.

The fuel must be transported within a standard tank or special container as defined below:A standard tank is defined as:

 * The tanks permanently fixed by the manufacturer to all motor vehicles of the same type as the vehicle in question and whose permanent fitting enables fuel to be used directly, both for the purpose of propulsion and, where appropriate, for the operation, during transport, of refrigeration systems and other systems
 * Gas tanks fitted to motor vehicles designed for the direct use of gas as a fuel and tanks fitted to the other systems with which the vehicle may be equipped
 * Tanks permanently fixed by the manufacturer to all containers of the same type as the container in question and whose permanent fitting enables fuel to be used directly for the operation, during transport, of the refrigeration systems and other systems with which special containers are equipped

A special container is defined as any container fitted with specially designed apparatus for refrigeration systems, oxygenation systems, thermal insulation systems, or other systems.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code does not grant excise duty relief.

C39 also applies to the lubricants present in the motor vehicles and required for their normal operation during the journey in question.

Additional Procedure Code C39 may not be used to claim customs duty relief on quantities of fuel or lubricants in excess of 10 litres per vehicle for private motor vehicles and motor cycles.

Additional Procedure Code C39 may not be used to claim customs duty relief on quantities of fuel or lubricants in excess of 200 litres per commercial vehicle standard tank or special container.

Additional Procedure Code C39 may not be used to claim import duty relief on fuel transported in containers other than those defined above.

Fuel admitted duty-free may not be used in a vehicle other than that in which it was imported nor be removed from that vehicle and stored, except during necessary repairs to that vehicle, nor be transferred, whether for a consideration or free of charge.

This Additional Procedure Code should only be used to claim relief on goods liable to a positive (non-zero) rate of Customs Duty.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C39 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

