C40: Materials for cemeteries for, and memorials to, war victims
----------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of materials for cemeteries and memorials for war victims (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 112).

### Goods covered:

Goods of every description imported by organisations approved by HMRC, to be used for the construction, upkeep or ornamentation of cemeteries, tombs and memorials of war victims of third countries on which relief from customs duty is claimed, including the:

 * Commonwealth War Graves Commission
 * American Battle Monuments Commission

### Conditions for use:

The relief extends to office equipment and supplies such as furniture, PCs and stationery which are to be used in pursuance of work in relation to war graves and memorials.

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

The relief does not cover goods, which do not contribute to the construction, upkeep or ornamentation of war graves or monuments, for example private motor cars and cycles, alcohol and tobacco products.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) unless the declaration is being submitted by an Indirect Representative (code \xe2\x80\x983\xe2\x80\x99 declared in DE 3/21 (Representative Status)).

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C40 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053, 4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

