C41: Coffins, funerary urns and ornamental funerary articles
------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of coffins, funerary urns and ornamental funerary articles (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 113).

### Goods covered:

Relief applies to:

 * Coffins containing bodies and urns containing the ashes of deceased persons, as well as the flowers, funeral wreaths and other ornamental objects normally accompanying them
 * Flowers wreaths and other ornamental objects brought by persons resident outside the territory of the Customs Union, attending a funeral or coming to decorate graves in the territory of the Customs Union provided these importations do not reflect, by either their nature or their quantity, any commercial intent.

This Additional Procedure Code is only for use where a written customs declaration is required and a customs clearance request using DE 1/11 36C cannot be used to release the coffins, funerary urns and ornamental funerary articles.

### Conditions for use:

This Additional Procedure Code is for private importations of coffins, funerary urns and ornamental funerary articles whether or not an agent is used to conduct the clearance activities on the applicant\xe2\x80\x99s behalf.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional procedure Code is not to be used for commercial importations of coffins, funerary urns and ornamental funerary articles for sale.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

Any values required to be declared on the declaration should be an indicative amount for the coffin, urn, flowers wreaths and other ornamental objects. The value should not include any value attributed to the bodies or ashes of the deceased person.

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C41 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

This Additional Procedure Code is only for use where a written customs declaration is required and a customs clearance request using DE 1/11 36C cannot be used to release the coffins, funerary urns and ornamental funerary articles.

