C43: Personal property belonging to a natural person having intention to transfer his normal place of residence to the Union (duty-free admission subject to an undertaking)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of personal property belonging to a natural person having intention to transfer his normal place of residence to the Union (duty-free admission subject to an undertaking) (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 10).

### Goods covered:

Where, owing to occupational commitments, the person has left his third country place of residence without establishing his normal place of residence in the territory of the Customs Union, but has the intention to do so to transfer his household effects and personal property.

Household effects and personal property belonging to natural persons transferring their normal place of residence (ToR) to the United Kingdom only prior to their permanent move to the UK.

Relief will be granted provided that an undertaking is given to confirm that the applicant will move their normal place of residence to the UK within six months of the date of acceptance of the declaration.

Security will be required as per Article 9 in CSDR Regulation 1186/2009.

### Conditions for use:

The conditions in [Notice 5](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu) must be met.

Prior to making this declaration an application for Transfer of Residence relief (using a ToR1 form) must be made.

No items may be sold, loaned, gifted or transferred for a minimum of 12-months after the date of importation.

All items in this consignment declared to ToR must be retained by the Importer for a minimum period of 12 months from date of import into UK.

Failure to comply with this post-import restriction can lead to demand of immediate payment of previously relieved import duties and charges.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

This relief cannot be used for transfer of residence to or from second homes.

The relief does not apply to alcoholic beverages, tobacco and tobacco products, commercial vehicles and articles for use in the exercise of a trade or profession other than portable instruments of the applied or liberal arts and goods that the applicant for ToR has not possessed or used for at least six consecutive months prior to the date of importation.

This relief may only be applied for in the member state in which the applicant will be taking up normal residence.

Any consignments applying for relief elsewhere in the EU must not be declared to this Additional Procedure Code.

Such consignments may only be approved for relief by the destination Member State\xe2\x80\x99s own Customs Authority. These consignments should instead be sent onwards using Union Transit procedures.

This Additional Procedure Code can only be used where the personal property is being transferred up to a maximum of 6-months prior to the applicant taking up normal residence in the UK.

If the personal property is being transferred:

 * After the applicant has taken up normal residence, Additional Procedure Code C01 should be used
 * Up to a maximum of 6-months before the applicant takes up normal residence in the UK, Additional Procedure Code C42 should be used

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Notices:

[Notice 5: Transfer of Residence - moving to or returning to the UK from outside the EU](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Transfer of Residence (ToR) relief for household effects and personal property belonging to natural persons transferring their normal place of residence to the United Kingdom only. |  TOR01 |  Enter the ToR authorisation number granted. | 
 
#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Goods Manifest:

Packing lists, manifests and/or insurance documents detailing items within the consignments should be attached as appropriate, especially to identify any goods outlined above under \xe2\x80\x98Goods covered\xe2\x80\x99.

These should be declared using the relevant document codes between N235 \xe2\x80\x93 N787 as appropriate. The document codes which may be used, and their completion instructions may be found in [Appendix 5A: DE 2/3 Documents and Other Reference Codes (Union)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/data-element-23-documents-and-other-reference-codes-union-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds).

### Security required:

Security may be required as per Article 9 in CSDR Regulation 1186/2009 where any revenue due is not paid at the time of release to the Procedure. An appropriate Method of Payment code should be declared in DE 4/8 (see [Appendix 9: DE 4/8: Method of Payment Codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/method-of-payment-codes-for-data-element-48-of-the-customs-declaration-service) for details of the codes which may be used).

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C43 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

Claim [form ToR1: Application for Transfer of Residence relief (ToR1)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/application-for-transfer-of-residence-tor-relief-tor01) is required.

