C44: Personal property acquired by inheritance by legal persons engaged in a non-profit making activity who are established in the customs territory of the Union
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of personal property acquired by inheritance by legal persons engaged in a non-profit making activity who are established in the territory of the Customs Union (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 20).

### Goods covered:

Inherited goods for which relief from Customs Duty is claimed.

Any goods included in the estate of the deceased inherited by legal persons engaged in a non-profit making activity established in the of the territory of the Customs Union.

Examples are:

 * Jewellery, stamp collections, bicycles and private motor vehicles, caravans, trailers, pleasure craft and private aircraft
 * Household furnishings
 * Family pets and saddle animals
 * Portable items (such as doctor\xe2\x80\x99s bag, musicians\xe2\x80\x99 instruments, photographers\xe2\x80\x99 cameras and equipment) used by the deceased in their trade or profession

### Conditions for use:

The conditions on [Gov.UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-or-vat-on-inherited-goods) must be met.

This relief only applies to goods inherited from a deceased person.

Applicants to this relief must be able to provide documented evidence proving entitlement, such as the Last Will and Testament of the deceased, or authorised documents from the Executor for the estate of the deceased.

The pets or saddle animals must meet the conditions for admittance to the Union, for example veterinary certificates, vaccinations, pet passport etc.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

The relief does not apply to:

 * Alcoholic drinks, tobacco and tobacco products
 * Stocks of raw materials and finished or semi-finished products
 * Tools of trade other than the portable items (such as doctor\xe2\x80\x99s bag, musicians\xe2\x80\x99 instruments, photographers\xe2\x80\x99 cameras and equipment) used by the deceased in their trade or profession
 * Commercial vehicles
 * Livestock and stocks of agricultural products which are more than what are required to meet a family\xe2\x80\x99s normal needs
 * Goods bought from the executor of the estate
 * Goods bought or received as a gift from the legal person who inherited them

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Notices:

[Pay no import duties or VAT on inherited goods](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-or-vat-on-inherited-goods)

[Notice 8: sailing your pleasure craft to and from the UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-8-sailing-your-pleasure-craft-to-and-from-the-uk)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Inherited goods Form C1421 - Enter:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  1421 |  Form C1421 - Importing inherited goods free of duty and VAT (Notice 368). |  Enter the applicant\xe2\x80\x99s reference number from Form C1421.  
  
Use one of the following status codes (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 document status codes for harmonised declarations for definitions](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)): AE, AF, AG, AP, AS, AT, GE, GP, JE, JP, LE, LP, UA, UE, UP, US, XA, XB. | 
 
Goods Manifest:

Packing lists, manifests and/or insurance documents detailing items within the consignments should be attached as appropriate, especially to identify any goods outlined above under \xe2\x80\x98Goods covered\xe2\x80\x99.

These should be declared using the relevant document codes between N235 \xe2\x80\x93 N787 as appropriate. The document codes which may be used, and their completion instructions may be found in [Appendix 5A: DE 2/3 Documents and Other Reference Codes (Union)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/data-element-23-documents-and-other-reference-codes-union-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds).

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C44 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4053, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

Claim [form C1421](https://public-online.hmrc.gov.uk/lc/content/xfaforms/profiles/forms.html?contentRoot=repository:///Applications/Customs_A/1.0/C1421&template=C1421.xdp) supported by the other documents referred to on [Gov.UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-or-vat-on-inherited-goods).

The applicant must ensure that any conditions relating to the importation of the specific items, including any prohibitions or restrictions are met, such as registering aircraft with aviation authorities.

