C45: Agricultural, stock-farming, bee-keeping, horticultural and forestry products from properties located in a third country adjoining the customs territory of the Union
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of agricultural, stock-farming, bee-keeping, horticultural and forestry products from properties located in a third country adjoining the territory of the Customs Union (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 35).

### Goods covered:

Certain agricultural products and products intended for agricultural use, for example:

 * Agricultural and stock farming,
 * Bee-keeping,
 * Horticultural; and
 * Forestry products.

Products should not have undergone any treatment other than that which normally follow their harvest or production.

### Conditions for use:

Stock-farming products must be derived from animals which originated in the Customs Union or animals which are in already in free circulation.

Relief shall only be granted in respect of products imported by the agricultural producer or on his behalf.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code will not grant relief on stock farming products derived from animals which do not originate in the Customs Union or from animals which are not already in free circulation.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) where a licence or certificate is required at the time the imported goods are released to free circulation. Controlled goods may only be entered using Simplified Declaration Procedure (Regular Use).

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C45 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

The applicant must ensure that any conditions relating to the importation of the goods, including any prohibitions, restrictions or licensing are met.

