C46: Products of fishing or fish-farming activities carried out in the lakes or waterways bordering a Member State and a third country by Union fishermen and products of hunting activities carried out on such lakes or waterways by Union sportsmen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of products of fishing, fish-farming and hunting activities by Union fishermen or sportsmen carried out on lakes or waterways that border a Member State. (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 38).

### Goods covered:

Products of fishing, fish farming activities or hunting activities.

### Conditions for use:

The products must have been caught or farmed by Union fishermen or sportsmen.

Products should not have undergone any treatment other than that which normally follow their harvest or production.

Relief shall only be granted in respect of products imported by the fishermen, sportsmen or their representative.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

Only products caught or farmed from lakes or waterways that border a member state are eligible to use this Additional Procedure Code.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) where a licence or certificate is required at the time the imported goods are released to free circulation. Controlled goods may only be entered using Simplified Declaration Procedure (Regular Use).

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C46 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

The applicant must ensure that any conditions relating to the importation of the goods, including any prohibitions, restrictions or licensing are met.

