C47: Seeds, fertilisers and products for treatment of soil and crops intended for use on property located in the customs territory of the Union adjoining a third country
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of seeds, fertilisers and products for treatment of soil and crops intended for use on property located in the territory of the Customs Union adjoining a third country (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 39).

### Goods covered:

Seeds, fertilisers and products for treatment of soil and crops on a Union agricultural property that is in a member state adjoining a third country.

### Conditions for Use:

The operator of the Union agricultural property:

 * Must have their principle agricultural operations in a third country
 * The third country where their principle operations are based must adjoin the Union
 * The goods must be used in the member state that adjoins said third country.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

Relief is restricted to the quantity of seeds, fertilizers or other products required for the purpose operating the property.

The goods must be imported by the agricultural producer or their representative.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) where a licence or certificate is required at the time the imported goods are released to free circulation. Controlled goods may only be entered using Simplified Declaration Procedure (Regular Use).

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C47 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

The applicant must ensure that any conditions relating to the importation of the goods, including any prohibitions, restrictions or licensing are met.

