C48: Goods contained in the personal luggage and exempted from VAT
------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of goods contained in the personal luggage where they meet the conditions necessary to also relieve import VAT. (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 41).

### Goods covered:

Goods contained in the personal luggage of travellers coming from a third country or Territory with which the EU has form a customs union which are not eligible to be declared using an oral declaration, provided such goods are also exempt from import VAT.

### Conditions of use:

This Additional Procedure Code may only be used if the traveller has the goods with them when they physically enter the EU. Exceptions may be granted for luggage that was lost during the journey and is later presented to Customs.

This Additional Procedure Code should only be used where the goods are not eligible to be declared on an oral declaration, for example, the goods are over the statistical threshold or subject to admissibility controls such as licencing requirements, prohibition or restrictions (EU Reg. No. 2015/2446, Article 142).

The goods may only claim customs duty relief where they are also eligible for import VAT relief.

The use of Additional Procedure Code C48 will only relieve the customs duty.

Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11 to be eligible to claim this relief.

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code must not be used where the goods have been sent as freight or unaccompanied baggage with the exception of luggage lost during the journey.

This Additional Procedure Code should not be used where the goods are eligible to be declared using an oral declaration (EU Reg. No. 2015/2446, Article 141).

This Additional Procedure Code may only be used where the goods are eligible for:

 * Customs duty relief and
 * Import VAT relief;

Excise Duty relief may be claimed (where applicable).

Where the goods are eligible excise duty relief, Additional Procedure Code 1RE must also be declared in DE 1/11 against the goods item concerned.

Failure to declare F45 will result in the declaration being rejected.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedure (SDP- Regular use) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

Failure to declare F45 will result in the declaration being rejected.

### Excise:

Failure to declare 1RE in DE 1/11 will result in any excise duties due being charged.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C48 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

The applicant must ensure that any conditions relating to the importation of the goods, including any prohibitions, restrictions or licensing are met.

