C49: Goods for charitable or philanthropic organisations - goods of every description sent free of charge and to be used for fund-raising at occasional charity events for the benefit of needy persons
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of goods of every description to be used for fund-raising at occasional charity events for the benefit of needy persons by charitable or philanthropic organisations, State organisations or other approved organisations (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 61(1)(b)).

### Goods covered:

Goods of any description (with the exception of those listed under Restrictions below) sent free of charge by a party in a third country to be used or sold at occasional charity events for the benefit of needy people.

Needy people are defined as those persons requiring any of the basic necessities, such as food, medicine, clothing and bed-clothes.

### Conditions for use:

Goods may be imported to this Additional Procedure Code by the following charitable and philanthropic organisations:

 * Those registered by the Charities Commission or the Office of the Scottish Charities Regulator
 * State organisations which are devoted to welfare

The following organisations may also claim relief under this Additional Procedure Code providing they are non-profit making and the imported goods are intended for use at fund-raising events for the benefit of the needy:

 * Hospitals
 * Youth organisations
 * Clubs, homes and hostels for the aged
 * Orphanages and children\xe2\x80\x99s homes
 * Organisations set up for the relief of distress caused by particular disasters in the customs union
 * Organisations concerned with the relief of distress generally (such as the British Red Cross Society or the Salvation Army).

The goods must have been supplied:

 * Free of charge from a person or organisation established outside the Customs Union
 * Without any commercial intent on the part of the donor.

An \xe2\x80\x98occasional charity event\xe2\x80\x99 means any event held normally not more than 4 times a year by any one organisation.

Use of this Additional Procedure Code constitutes a declaration by the organisation that the goods:

 * Meet the conditions for relief, and will be used in accordance with the procedures, laid down in [Notice 317](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-317-imports-by-charities-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-317-imports-by-charities-free-of-duty-and-vat).
 * Will not be used for any other purpose without the prior consent of HMRC and the payment of previously relieved customs duty and VAT.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

### Restrictions on usage:

This duty relief is not available to support any business or commercial activities that will involve retail sales and hire charges of the imported goods, or for goods manufactured or produced by a third party who then charges the charity organisation accordingly.

The following specific goods are not eligible for relief:

 * Alcoholic products (including alcohol based perfume)
 * Tobacco and tobacco products
 * Coffee and tea
 * Motor vehicles other than ambulances
 * Items associated solely with worship such as statues and pulpits
 * Any goods whose importation would give rise to abuse or major distortion of competition. HMRC may therefore limit the quantities or kinds of goods which you can import

### Notices:

[Notice 317: imports by charities free of duty and VAT](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-317-imports-by-charities-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-317-imports-by-charities-free-of-duty-and-vat)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Where the goods are imported by a Charitable Organisation, enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  For use on imports by charities free of duty and VAT. |  CCR01 |  Enter the Charities Commission or Office of the Scottish Charities Regulator Registration Number. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

Where eligible for VAT relief under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C49 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

