C51: Cups, medals and similar articles of an essentially symbolic nature which having been awarded in a third country to persons having their normal place of residence in the customs territory of the Union
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of cups, medals and similar articles of an essentially symbolic nature awarded in a third country to persons having their normal place of residence in EU as a tribute to their activities in fields such as the arts, the sciences, sport or the public service or as in recognition for merit at a particular event. (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 81(b)).

### Goods covered:

Goods can claim customs duty relief if they are imported by an entitled person who has received a decoration or award in a third country.

Relief applies to awards, trophies, cups, medals and similar articles of a symbolic nature awarded free of charge in recognition of activities.

 * As tributes or
 * in any field or for merit at a particular event, such as an international competition, or
 * As an award for an act of courage or dedication to persons who normally reside in the Customs Union

### Conditions for use:

The award, trophy, cup or medal must:

 * Have been awarded in a third country
 * Be awarded to a recipient who has their normal place of residence in the UK
 * Be imported by the recipient

[Form C920](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duty-and-vat-when-importing-decorations-and-awards) may be required to support the claim to relief.

The proof needed to get relief depends on the circumstances in which the decoration or award is made. HMRC will normally accept any certificate or press publicity material relating to the decoration or award, or a letter or statement from the donor or organiser of the event.

To support the application to relief, the evidence should name the claimant personally.

HMRC reserves the right to contact the donors or organisers of the award to fully confirm the evidence provided is genuine and legitimate.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown in [Notice 364](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-364-importing-decorations-and-awards-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-364-importing-decorations-and-awards-free-of-duty-and-vat).

### Restrictions on usage:

Goods excluded from relief:

 * Watches, cameras, cars
 * Long service awards made to employees by employers or colleagues
 * Prizes won in unimportant competitions such as deck games and card games
 * Articles bought with prize money
 * Gifts or prizes given instead of payment
 * Cases where the donor appears to be motivated largely by commercial considerations
 * Any consumables such as alcoholic drinks, tobacco products, foods
 * Souvenirs distributed which are not in keeping with the nature of the event

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) unless the declaration is being submitted by an Indirect Representative (code \xe2\x80\x983\xe2\x80\x99 declared in DE 3/21 (Representative Status)).

### Notices:

[Notice 364: importing decorations and awards free of duty and VAT](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-364-importing-decorations-and-awards-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-364-importing-decorations-and-awards-free-of-duty-and-vat)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Where required, enter:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  920C |  Declaration for imported decorations and awards. Relief from import Duty and VAT.  
Note: Form C920 may be required to qualify for the relief |  Enter the applicant\xe2\x80\x99s reference number as completed on Form C920.  
  
Where C920 is not required, enter an alternative reference number from the evidence provided to support the importation of the award.  
  
Use one of the following status codes (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 document status codes for harmonised declarations for definitions](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)): AE, AF, AG, AP, AS, AT, GE, GP, JE, JP, LE, LP, UA, UE, UP, US, XA, XB. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C51 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

