C52: Cups, medals and similar articles of an essentially symbolic nature which are given free of charge by authorities or persons established in a third country, to be presented in the Customs Territory of the Union, to a person having their normal place of residence in the EU
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of cups, medals and similar articles of an essentially symbolic nature given free of charge by authorities or persons established in a third country to be presented in the in the EU to a resident of the EU (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 81(c)).

### Goods covered:

Awards, trophies, cups, medals and similar articles which meet the following requirements: the imported items are:

 * Symbolic in nature
 * Given free of charge by authorities or persons established in a third country
 * To be presented in the territory of the Customs Union
 * To persons having their normal place of residence in the territory of the Customs Union

### Conditions for use:

The award trophies, cups, medals and similar articles are to be awarded:

 * As tributes or
 * In recognition of activities in any field or for merit at a particular event, such as an international competition, or
 * As an award for an act of courage or dedication to persons who normally reside in the Customs Union,
 * By authorities or persons established in third countries and imported for presentation in the Customs Union.

Relief may be claimed by the person who is to present a decoration or award.

The proof needed to get relief depends on the circumstances in which the decoration or award is made. Evidence will normally be required providing the details of the event at which the items will be awarded and/or details of the intended recipient, if the item is being imported for award to a particular person.

[Form C920](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duty-and-vat-when-importing-decorations-and-awards) may be required to support the claim to relief.

HMRC reserves the right to contact the donors or organisers of the award to fully confirm the evidence provided is genuine and legitimate.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown in [Notice 364](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-364-importing-decorations-and-awards-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-364-importing-decorations-and-awards-free-of-duty-and-vat).

### Restrictions on usage:

Goods excluded from relief:

 * Watches, cameras, cars
 * Long service awards made to employees by employers or colleagues
 * Prizes won in unimportant competitions such as deck games and card games
 * Articles bought with prize money
 * Gifts or prizes given instead of payment
 * Cases where the donor appears to be motivated largely by commercial considerations
 * Any consumables such as alcoholic drinks, tobacco products, foods
 * Souvenirs distributed which are not in keeping with the nature of the event

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) unless the declaration is being submitted by an Indirect Representative (code \xe2\x80\x983\xe2\x80\x99 declared in DE 3/21 (Representative Status)).

### Notices:

[Notice 364: importing decorations and awards free of duty and VAT](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-364-importing-decorations-and-awards-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-364-importing-decorations-and-awards-free-of-duty-and-vat)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Where required, enter:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  920C |  Declaration for imported decorations and awards. Relief from import Duty and VAT.  
Note: Form C920 may be required to qualify for the relief |  Enter the applicant\xe2\x80\x99s reference number as completed on Form C920.  
  
Where C920 is not required, enter an alternative reference number from the evidence provided to support the importation of the award.  
  
Use one of the following status codes (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 document status codes for harmonised declarations for definitions](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)): AE, AF, AG, AP, AS, AT, GE, GP, JE, JP, LE, LP, UA, UE, UP, US, XA, XB. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C52 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

