C53: Awards, trophies and souvenirs of a symbolic nature and of limited value intended for distribution free of charge to persons normally resident in third countries at business conferences or similar international events
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of awards, trophies and souvenirs of a symbolic nature and of limited value intended for distribution free of charge to persons normally resident in third countries at business conferences or similar international events (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 81(d)).

### Goods covered:

Relief applies to awards, cups, medals, trophies and souvenirs of a symbolic nature, with no commercial value.

### Conditions for use:

The Awards, cups, medals, trophies and souvenirs must be

 * Imported for distribution free of charge at business conferences or similar international events
 * Of limited value
 * For issue to persons normally resident in third countries.

[Form C920](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duty-and-vat-when-importing-decorations-and-awards) may be required to support the claim to relief.

The proof needed to get relief will depend on the circumstances in which the awards, cups, medals, trophies or souvenirs are distributed.

HMRC will normally accept any certificate or press publicity material relating to the event, or a letter or statement from the organiser of the event.

HMRC reserves the right to contact the organisers to confirm the evidence provided is genuine and legitimate.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown in [Notice 364](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-364-importing-decorations-and-awards-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-364-importing-decorations-and-awards-free-of-duty-and-vat).

### Restrictions on usage:

The goods to be awarded must be of a nature, unitary value or other features, that indicate they are not being imported for commercial reasons

Goods must only be supplied to persons normally resident in third countries.

Goods excluded from relief:

 * Watches, cameras, cars
 * Long service awards made to employees by employers or colleagues
 * Prizes won in unimportant competitions such as deck games and card games
 * Articles bought with prize money
 * Gifts or prizes given instead of payment
 * Cases where the donor appears to be motivated largely by commercial considerations
 * Any consumables such as alcoholic drinks, tobacco products, foods
 * Souvenirs distributed which are not in keeping with the nature of the event

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) unless the declaration is being submitted by an Indirect Representative (code \xe2\x80\x983\xe2\x80\x99 declared in DE 3/21 (Representative Status)).

### Notices:

[Notice 364: importing decorations and awards free of duty and VAT](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-364-importing-decorations-and-awards-free-of-duty-and-vat/notice-364-importing-decorations-and-awards-free-of-duty-and-vat)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Where required, enter:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  920C |  Declaration for imported decorations and awards. Relief from import Duty and VAT.  
Note: Form C920 may be required to qualify for the relief |  Enter the applicant\xe2\x80\x99s reference number as completed on Form C920.  
  
Where C920 is not required, enter an alternative reference number from the evidence provided to support the importation of the award.  
  
Use one of the following status codes (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 document status codes for harmonised declarations for definitions](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)): AE, AF, AG, AP, AS, AT, GE, GP, JE, JP, LE, LP, UA, UE, UP, US, XA, XB. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C53 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

