C54: Goods imported into the customs territory of the Union by persons coming to pay an official visit in the customs territory of the Union and who intend to offer them on that occasion as gifts to the host authorities
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of goods imported into the EU by persons coming to pay an official visit in the EU and who intend to offer them as gifts to the host authorities during the visit (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 82(b)).

### Goods covered:

Relief applies to gifts being presented to the host authorities during an official visit.

### Conditions for use:

To be eligible for the relief:

 * The gifts must be offered to an EU resident during an official visit by an official from a third country
 * The gifts are offered on an occasional basis
 * The nature, value or quantity of the gifts does not reflect any commercial interest

Evidence must be provided by the donor detailing:

 * The gifts to be offered
 * The details of the official visit.

The reference details of the evidence must be provided in DE 2/3 (Document Codes), see below.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

Goods imported under this Additional Procedure Code must not:

 * Reflect any commercial interest or be put to any commercial use
 * Be gifts between representatives of business firms or trading bodies
 * Be gifts from overseas traders to trade delegations
 * Be or contain any alcohol or tobacco products

Goods imported by EU residents returning from a representative visit of some international significance outside the EU, having been presented with the goods during their visit should be declared using Additional Procedure Code C28

Gifts being sent an EU official body, public authority or group, carrying on an activity in the public interest from a representative of a similar official body in a third country should be declared using Additional Procedure Code C55

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) unless the declaration is being submitted by an Indirect Representative (code \xe2\x80\x983\xe2\x80\x99 declared in DE 3/21 (Representative Status)).

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

The following Document Codes may be required:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  9AID |  Evidence required by Additional Procedure Code (DE 1/11) C54 instructions for claiming relief:  
Gifts received on an official visit overseas |  Evidence held (for example, letter from the donor: Enter the reference details of the evidence.  
  
Use one of the following status codes, (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 document status codes for harmonised declarations](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)):  
JP \xe2\x80\x93 Evidence required is available from trader | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C54 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

