C55: Goods sent as gifts, in token of friendship or goodwill, by an official body, public authority or group, carrying on an activity in the public interest which is located in a third country, to an official body, public authority or group carrying on an activity in the public interest which is located in the customs territory of the Union and approved by the competent authorities to receive such articles free of duty
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of goods sent as gifts by an official body, public authority or group:

 * In token of friendship or goodwill,
 * Who are carrying on an activity in the public interest
 * Which is located in a third country,

The goods imported as gifts are sent to:

 * An official body, public authority or group
 * Carrying on an activity in the public interest
 * Which is located in the Customs Union and approved by the competent authorities to receive such articles free of customs duty (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 82(c)).

### Goods covered:

Relief applies to gifts being sent to an EU official body, public authority or group, carrying on an activity in the public interest from a representative of a similar official body in a third country.

### Conditions for use:

To be eligible for the relief:

 * The gifts must be offered to an EU official body, public authority or group, carrying on an activity in the public interest from a representative of a similar official body in a third country
 * The articles intended as gifts are offered on an occasional basis
 * They do not, by their nature, value or quantity, reflect any commercial interest

Evidence must be provided by the donor detailing the gifts to be offered.

The reference details of the evidence must be provided in DE 2/3 (Document Codes), see below.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

Goods imported under this Additional Procedure Code must not:

 * Reflect any commercial interest or be put to any commercial use
 * Be gifts between representatives of business firms or trading bodies
 * Be gifts from overseas traders to trade delegations
 * Be or contain any alcohol or tobacco products

Goods imported by EU residents returning from a representative visit of some international significance outside the EU, having been presented with the goods during their visit should be declared using Additional Procedure Code C28.

Gifts being presented to the host authorities during an official visit should be declared using Additional Procedure Code C54.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) unless the declaration is being submitted by an Indirect Representative (code \xe2\x80\x983\xe2\x80\x99 declared in DE 3/21 (Representative Status)).

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

The following Document Codes may be required:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  9AID |  Evidence required by Additional Procedure Code (DE 1/11) C54 instructions for claiming relief:  
Gifts received on an official visit overseas |  Evidence held (for example, letter from the donor: Enter the reference details of the evidence.  
  
Use one of the following status codes, (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 document status codes for harmonised declarations](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)):  
JP \xe2\x80\x93 Evidence required is available from trader | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C55 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

