C56: Articles for advertising purposes, of no intrinsic commercial value, sent free of charge by suppliers to their customers, which apart from their advertising function, are not capable of being used otherwise
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of articles for advertising purposes, of no intrinsic commercial value, sent free of charge by suppliers to their customers, which, apart from their advertising function, are not capable of being used otherwise (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 89)

### Goods covered:

Goods for advertising purposes, sent free of charge by suppliers which are not capable of being used for anything other than advertising.

### Conditions for use:

Goods must have no intrinsic commercial value.

Goods must not be capable of being used for anything other than advertising purposes.

Goods must have been supplied free of charge by the third country supplier to an EU customer.

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Refer to the detailed conditions shown on [Gov.uk](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-and-vat-on-miscellaneous-documents-and-related-articles).

### Restrictions on usage:

Goods must not be capable of being used for anything other than advertising purposes.

Goods must not have been sold by the third country supplier.

This Additional Procedure Code should only be used to claim relief on goods liable to a positive (non-zero) rate of Customs Duty.

See information on [Gov.UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-and-vat-on-miscellaneous-documents-and-related-articles) for all exclusions.

Printed advertising material should be declared using Additional Procedure Code C31.

### Notices:

[Pay no import duties and VAT on miscellaneous documents and related articles](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/pay-no-import-duties-and-vat-on-miscellaneous-documents-and-related-articles)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Enter:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  N271 |  Goods manifest:  
Attach a list of goods for which relief is being claimed:  
Note:  
For multi item consignments, attach using document code N271, a schedule providing a detailed description of each item covered by the declaration |  Enter the reference number of the goods manifest/list. Where a sequentially numbered range of manifests/lists cover the goods enter the lowest to the highest reference numbers of the packing lists concerned i.e. document code + 0054037-0054047: status code. Where packing lists are not sequentially numbered enter the reference number of each packing list concerned.  
  
Use one of the following status codes (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 Document Status Codes for definitions](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)):  
AC, AE, AF, AG, AS, AT, GE, GP, JA, JE, JS | 
 |  9AID |  Evidence required by Additional Procedure Code (DE 1/11) C56:  
Advertising articles |  Enter the name of the person supplying the goods free of charge  
  
Use status code:  
JP \xe2\x80\x93 Evidence required is available from trader. | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C56 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4053, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

