C57: Goods imported solely in order to be demonstrated or in order to demonstrate machines and apparatus, manufactured outside the customs territory of the Union and displayed at a trade fair or similar event
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of goods imported solely for demonstration or to demonstrate machines and apparatus, manufactured outside the EU and for display at a trade fair or similar event (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 90(1)(b)).

### Goods covered:

Any goods imported for demonstration purposes that will be completely used up, consumed or destroyed through their demonstration usage at an exhibition, trade fair or similar event on which relief from customs duty is claimed.

### Conditions for use:

Goods must be consumed or destroyed at the exhibition and must be appropriate, in their total value and quantity, to the nature of the exhibition, the number of visitors and the extent of the exhibitor\xe2\x80\x99s participation.

A list of the goods giving quantities and UK values of each type, and the name, place and date of the event (including hall and stand numbers where appropriate) will be required as evidence to demonstrate the usage of the goods at the event. This should be declared using document code N271 in DE 2/3 (see below).

This Additional Procedure Code is only available to a UK based EORI. The party declared as the importer, in DE 3/16, will be responsible for compliance with the conditions of the relief, any post-clearance audit queries and debt liabilities. This liability will be shared with the agent/representative where indirect representation is declared (code \xe2\x80\x983\xe2\x80\x99 declared in DE 3/21 (Representative Status Code)).

HMRC may also request that the event organiser provides official evidence of participation at the event.

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

Alcoholic products, tobacco products and fuels, whether solid, liquid or gaseous aren\xe2\x80\x99t eligible for this relief and must be declared to another customs procedure.

The event concerned must not be organised in a shop or on other premises purely to sell imported goods.

Goods for distribution as samples at a trade fair cannot be imported using this Additional Procedure Code. Code C32 should be used instead.

Goods imported to build, fit out or decorate a stand at a trade fair cannot be imported using this Additional Procedure Code. Code C58 should be used instead.

Goods which are to be used for advertising purposes by the exhibitor at a trade fair cannot be imported using this Additional Procedure Code. Code C59 should be used instead.

### Notices:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

The following AI statements must be included in DE 2/2:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  For use when relief or suspension of duty is claimed for goods to be used at a trade fair or similar event |  GEN52 |  Enter the name, address, postcode and date of the event | 
 
#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Enter:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  N271 |  Goods manifest:  
Attach a list of goods for which relief is being claimed:  
Note:  
For multi item consignments, attach using document code N271, a schedule providing a detailed description of each item covered by the declaration |  Enter the reference number of the goods manifest/list. Where a sequentially numbered range of manifests/lists cover the goods enter the lowest to the highest reference numbers of the packing lists concerned i.e. document code + 0054037-0054047: status code. Where packing lists are not sequentially numbered enter the reference number of each packing list concerned.  
  
Use one of the following status codes (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 Document Status Codes for definitions](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)):  
AC, AE, AF, AG, AS, AT, GE, GP, JA, JE, JS | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C57 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

