C59: Printed matter, catalogues, prospectuses, price lists, advertising posters, calendars, whether or not illustrated, unframed photographs and other articles supplied free of charge in order to advertise goods manufactured outside the customs territory of the Union and displayed at a trade fair or similar event
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of printed matter supplied free of charge in order to advertise goods manufactured outside the EU for display or distribution at a trade fair or similar event (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 90 (1)(d)).

### Goods covered:

Printed materials imported for distribution or use at a trade fair or similar event.

Other items supplied free of charge to the public in order to advertise goods manufactured outside the customs territory of the Customs Union and displayed at a trade fair or similar event.

### Conditions for use:

The goods are intended exclusively to be distributed free of charge to the public at the place where the exhibition is held.

The goods must in their total value and quantity, be appropriate to the nature of the exhibition, the number of visitors and the extent of the exhibitor\xe2\x80\x99s participation.

A list of the goods giving quantities and UK values of each type, and the name, place and date of the event (including hall and stand numbers where appropriate) will be required as evidence to demonstrate the usage of the goods at the event. This should be declared using document code N271 in DE 2/3 (see below).

This Additional Procedure Code is only available to a UK based EORI. The party declared as the importer, in DE 3/16, will be responsible for compliance with the conditions of the relief, any post-clearance audit queries and debt liabilities. This liability will be shared with the agent/representative where indirect representation is declared (code \xe2\x80\x983\xe2\x80\x99 declared in DE 3/21 (Representative Status Code)).

HMRC may also request that the event organiser provides official evidence of participation at the event.

Information on the goods entered to this relief must be entered to the approved entity\xe2\x80\x99s records and retained for 4 years from the date of import.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

Only goods which are to be used for advertising purposes by the exhibitor may be imported to this Additional Procedure Code.

The event concerned must not be organised in a shop or on other premises purely to sell imported goods.

Goods for distribution as samples at a trade fair cannot be imported using this Additional Procedure Code. Code C32 should be used instead.

Goods for demonstration or to help with demonstration cannot be imported using this Additional Procedure Code. Code C57 should be used instead.

Goods imported to build, fit out or decorate a stand at a trade fair cannot be imported using this Additional Procedure Code. Code C58 should be used instead.

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

The following AI statements must be included in DE 2/2:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  For use when relief or suspension of duty is claimed for goods to be used at a trade fair or similar event |  GEN52 |  Enter the name, address, postcode and date of the event | 
 |  Bulking of consignments of documents only, where these goods are not subject to any import prohibitions and restrictions.  
Use of this code also requires:  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe Manifest Reference as a Previous Document Type in DE 2/1 using code N271 and  
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe number of packages for each goods item in DE 6/10 (item level) and the total number of packages in DE 6/18 (at header level). |  BULKD |  Enter the total value of the goods in GBP. | 
 
#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Enter:



  |  Document Code to be declared |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  N271 |  Goods manifest:  
Attach a list of goods for which relief is being claimed:  
Note:  
For multi item consignments, attach using document code N271, a schedule providing a detailed description of each item covered by the declaration |  Enter the reference number of the goods manifest/list. Where a sequentially numbered range of manifests/lists cover the goods enter the lowest to the highest reference numbers of the packing lists concerned i.e. document code + 0054037-0054047: status code. Where packing lists are not sequentially numbered enter the reference number of each packing list concerned.  
  
Use one of the following status codes (see [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 Document Status Codes for definitions](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)):  
AC, AE, AF, AG, AS, AT, GE, GP, JA, JE, JS | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C59 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4051, 4053, 4054, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

