C60: Trousseaux and household effects imported on the occasion of a marriage entered for free circulation in the first two months before the wedding (duty relief subject to the lodging of appropriate security)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of trousseaux and household effects imported up to two months before the wedding (duty relief subject to the lodging of appropriate security) (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 12(1), 15(1)(a)).

### Goods covered:

Trousseaux and household effects imported on the occasion of a marriage entered for free circulation no earlier than 2 months before the wedding.

### Conditions for use:

The conditions in [Notice 5](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu) must be met. To get the relief the claimant must:

 * Goods must be imported no earlier than 2 months before the date of the wedding
 * Evidence must be held of the intention to marry
 * Be moving from a country outside the EU to the UK to live in the UK, transferring the applicant\xe2\x80\x99s normal place of residence to the UK
 * Have lived outside the EU for at least the last 12 consecutive months
 * Have used and had possession of the goods for at least the last 6 consecutive months
 * Have used the goods and are going to continue using them in the new place of residence in the UK for at least the next 12 months
 * Import the goods within 12 months of coming to live in the UK
 * Not lend, pledge, give away, hire to others or transfer their goods within the first 12 months after the date on which they were imported
 * To be eligible for the relief:
 * The wedding may take place outside the EU
 * The Bride or Groom may already be a resident of the UK and the Bride or Groom is moving to the UK to take up residence on the occasion of the marriage

Wedding gifts and the wedding outfits of the bride and groom may also be imported and claim relief.

To claim relief for wedding gifts Additional Procedure Codes C03 or C61 must be used in addition to Code C60.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

Duty relief may be subject to the provision of appropriate security, see [Notice 5](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu).

### Restrictions on usage:

This relief may only be applied for in the member state in which the applicant will be taking up residence.

Any consignments applying for relief elsewhere in the EU must not be declared to this Additional Procedure Code.

Such consignments may only be approved for relief by the destination Member State\xe2\x80\x99s own Customs Authority. These consignments should instead be sent onwards using Union Transit procedures.

The relief does not apply to:

 * Alcoholic beverages
 * Tobacco and tobacco products
 * Commercial vehicles
 * Articles for use in the exercise of a trade or profession, other than portable instruments of the applied or liberal arts
 * Goods you have not possessed or used for at least 6 months (other than wedding outfits)

Relief for Wedding Gifts must be claimed under C03 or C61.

Trousseaux and household effects imported up to 4 months after the marriage should use Additional Procedure Code C02.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Notices:

[Notice 5: Transfer of Residence - moving to or returning to the UK from outside the EU](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Transfer of Residence (ToR) relief for household effects and personal property belonging to natural persons transferring their normal place of residence to the United Kingdom only. |  TOR01 |  Enter the ToR authorisation number granted. | 
 
#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Goods Manifest:

Packing lists, manifests and/or insurance documents detailing items within the consignments should be attached as appropriate, especially to identify any goods outlined above under \xe2\x80\x98Goods covered\xe2\x80\x99.

These should be declared using the relevant document codes between N235 \xe2\x80\x93 N787 as appropriate. The document codes which may be used, and their completion instructions may be found in [Appendix 5A: DE 2/3 Documents and Other Reference Codes (Union)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/data-element-23-documents-and-other-reference-codes-union-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds).

### Security required:

Security will be required as per Article 9 in CSDR Regulation 1186/2009 where any revenue due is not paid at the time of release to the Procedure. An appropriate Method of Payment code should be declared in DE 4/8 (see [Appendix 9: DE 4/8: Method of Payment Codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/method-of-payment-codes-for-data-element-48-of-the-customs-declaration-service) for details of the codes which may be used).

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C60 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4053, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

Claim [form ToR1: Application for Transfer of Residence relief (ToR1)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/application-for-transfer-of-residence-tor-relief-tor01) is required.

