C61: Presents customarily given on the occasion of a marriage entered for free circulation in the last two months before the wedding (duty relief subject to the lodging of appropriate security)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of presents customarily given on the occasion of a marriage imported up to 2 months before the date of the wedding (duty relief subject to the lodging of appropriate security) (Council Regulation 1186/2009 Article 12(2), 15(1)(a)).

### Goods covered:

Presents customarily given on the occasion of a marriage entered for free circulation not earlier than 2 months before the wedding.

### Conditions for use:

The conditions in [Notice 5](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu) must be met:

 * Gifts must be imported no earlier than 2 months before the date of the wedding
 * Evidence must be held of the intention to marry
 * The value of each present must not exceed \xe2\x82\xac1,000 per gift;
 * Be Intended for the Bride or Groom who must also be the applicant for the relief;
 * Of a kind normally given on marriage;
 * Given by persons who normally live outside the EU;
 * Not sold, lent, hired to others or disposed of in the UK or anywhere else in the EU within 12 months of the date of importation, unless prior notice is given to HMRC and any duty and/ or any VAT relieved at importation is paid.
 * Be moving from a country outside the EU to the UK to live in the UK, transferring the applicant\xe2\x80\x99s normal place of residence to the UK
 * Have lived outside the EU for at least the last 12 consecutive months

Please note: There is no monetary limit for wedding gifts if they are imported as part of the individual\xe2\x80\x99s personal belongings.

This Additional Procedure Code only grants relief from customs duty.

Where eligible to claim VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F45 must also be declared in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

This relief may only be applied for in the member state in which the Bride or Groom will be taking up residence.

Any consignments applying for relief elsewhere in the EU must not be declared to this Additional Procedure Code.

Such consignments may only be approved for relief by the destination Member State\xe2\x80\x99s own Customs Authority. These consignments should instead be sent onwards using Union Transit procedures.

The relief does not apply to:

 * Alcoholic beverages
 * Tobacco and tobacco products
 * Commercial vehicles
 * Articles for use in the exercise of a trade or profession, other than portable instruments of the applied or liberal arts

If wedding presents are imported up to 4 months after the wedding, then Additional Procedure Code C03 should be used instead of C61.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) or Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Notices:

[Notice 5: Transfer of Residence - moving to or returning to the UK from outside the EU](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu/notice-5-transfer-of-residence-moving-to-or-returning-to-the-uk-from-outside-the-eu)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Transfer of Residence (ToR) relief for household effects and personal property belonging to natural persons transferring their normal place of residence to the United Kingdom only. |  TOR01 |  Enter the ToR authorisation number granted. | 
 
#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Goods Manifest:

Packing lists, manifests and/or insurance documents detailing items within the consignments should be attached as appropriate, especially to identify any goods outlined above under \xe2\x80\x98Goods covered\xe2\x80\x99.

These should be declared using the relevant document codes between N235 \xe2\x80\x93 N787 as appropriate. The document codes which may be used, and their completion instructions may be found in [Appendix 5A: DE 2/3 Documents and Other Reference Codes (Union)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/data-element-23-documents-and-other-reference-codes-union-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds).

### Security required:

Security will be required as per Article 9 in CSDR Regulation 1186/2009 where any revenue due is not paid at the time of release to the Procedure. An appropriate Method of Payment code should be declared in DE 4/8 (see [Appendix 9: DE 4/8: Method of Payment Codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/method-of-payment-codes-for-data-element-48-of-the-customs-declaration-service) for details of the codes which may be used).

### VAT:

If VAT relief is to be claimed under Council Directive 2009/132/EC, then Additional Procedure Code F45 should also be declared against the goods item in DE 1/11. Where eligible, failure to declare both codes will result in only a single tax type being relieved.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code C61 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10): 4000, 4053, 4071, 4078.

### Additional documents needed:

Claim [form ToR1: Application for Transfer of Residence relief (ToR1)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/application-for-transfer-of-residence-tor-relief-tor01) is required.

   [    Contents](#contents)   Print this page       