D01: Temporary Admission; Pallets (including pallet accessories and equipment)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Pallets (including spare parts, pallet accessories and equipment) (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Articles 208 and 209).

### Goods covered:

For relief purposes, the term \xe2\x80\x98pallet\xe2\x80\x99 means:

 * A device on the deck of which a quantity of goods can be assembled to form a unit load for the purposes of transporting, handling or stacking with the assistance of mechanical appliances
 * Made up of 2 decks separated by bearers, or a single deck supported by feet
 * Special deck designed for air transport with an overall height reduced to the minimum compatible with handling by fork lifts and pallet trucks it may or may not have a super structure.

### Conditions for use:

This Additional Procedure Code is only to be used when instructed by HMRC for when there are concerns over eligibility or entitlement to the claim for relief and where PAL02 is not eligible for use on the DE 1/10 Procedure Code.

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code relates only to the pallets, spare parts, pallet accessories and equipment itself and not the pallets contents.

This Additional Procedure Code is only to be used for pallets that are imported empty.

Where the pallets are imported filled, the declaration must be made in respect of the goods contained within the pallets.

### Notices:

[Customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code (Notice 3001)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Authorisation by Customs Declaration users only. Only to be completed where the party using the Temporary Admission goods is not the importer (DE 3/15 or DE 3/16). |  GEN21 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Holders of a full Temporary Admission authorisation only. Only to be completed where the person using the goods is not the Temporary Admission authorisation holder (DE 3/16 and DE 3/39). |  GEN27 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: State how long the goods will be used and the intended date for re-exportation. |  GEN28 |  Enter the duration the goods intended usage followed by the intended date of re-export. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: Enter the article under which the Temporary Admission relief is claimed. |  GEN29 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98EU Reg. No. 2015/2446\xe2\x80\x99 followed by the appropriate article number for the relief: articles 207 \xe2\x80\x93 236 refer. | 
 
### Security required:

Security must be provided and will be brought to account if it is established that the person and/or pallets are not eligible for relief.

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

If the pallets are re-exported unloaded, then a re-export declaration using Procedure Code (DE 1/10) 3153 must be made.

If the pallets are re-exported loaded, then the export declaration should be in respect of and using the Procedure Code applicable to the goods being exported with the Additional Information code PAL07 in DE 2/2.

### Notes:

If the pallets are to be used for longer than the period identified in DE 2/2, contact the NTAS (see Notice 3001) (The maximum period goods may remain for use under TA relief is 24 months).

Records concerning import, use and re-export of the pallets are required to be kept for 4 years after disposal of the goods.

Additional Procedure Code D01 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Codes (DE 1/10): 5300, 5351, 5353, 5354, 5371, 5378.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

