D02: Temporary Admission; Containers (including container accessories and equipment)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Containers (including container accessories and equipment) (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Articles 210 and 211).

### Goods covered:

For relief purposes, \xe2\x80\x98containers\xe2\x80\x99 are defined as articles of transport equipment (lift vans, movable tanks and other similar structures) which are:

 * Fully or partially enclosed to constitute a compartment for containing goods
 * Of a permanent character and strong enough for repeated use
 * Specifically designed to aid the carriage of goods, by one or more modes of transport, without immediate reloading
 * Designed to be easily filled and emptied
 * Designed for ready handling, particularly when being transferred between different modes of transport
 * Having an internal volume of one cubic metre or more (air freight containers may be less than one cubic metre provided all other requirements above are met)
 * Normal spare parts, accessories and equipment that accompany a container
 * De-mountable bodies and platform flats.

Relief cannot be claimed for vehicles, accessories or spare parts of vehicles using this code.

### Conditions for use:

This Additional Procedure Code is only to be used when instructed by HMRC for when there are concerns over eligibility or entitlement to the claim for relief and where PAL03 is not eligible for use on the DE 1/10 Procedure Code.

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code relates only to the container itself and not its contents.

This Additional Procedure Code is only to be used for containers that are imported empty.

Where the containers are imported filled, the declaration must be made in respect of the goods within the containers.

### Notices:

[Customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code (Notice 3001)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declar | 
   |  Authorisation by Customs Declaration users only. Only to be completed where the party using the Temporary Admission goods is not the importer (DE 3/15 or DE 3/16). |  GEN21 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Holders of a full Temporary Admission authorisation only. Only to be completed where the person using the goods is not the Temporary Admission authorisation holder (DE 3/16 and DE 3/39). |  GEN27 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: State how long the goods will be used and the intended date for re-exportation. |  GEN28 |  Enter the duration the goods intended usage followed by the intended date of re-export. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: Enter the article under which the Temporary Admission relief is claimed. |  GEN29 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98EU Reg. No. 2015/2446\xe2\x80\x99 followed by the appropriate article number for the relief: articles 207 \xe2\x80\x93 236 refer. | 
 
### Document codes (DE 2/3):

Enter Document code N235 followed by the container numbers and the applicable status code (See [Appendix 5B: DE 2/3 Document Status codes](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/data-element-23-document-status-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds)).

### Security required:

Security must be provided and will be brought to account if it is established that the person and/or containers are not eligible for relief.

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

If the containers are re-exported unloaded, then a re-export declaration using Procedure Code (DE 1/10) 3153 must be made.

If the containers are re-exported loaded, then the export declaration should be in respect of and using the Procedure Code applicable to the goods being exported with the Additional Information code PAL08 in DE 2/2.

### Notes:

Eligible containers must be durably marked in a clearly visible place with:

 * The identity of the owner or operator
 * An identification mark and number given by the owners or operator and its tare weight including all its permanently fixed equipment (not needed for swap bodies or combined road-rail transport)
 * With the exception of containers used for transport by air, the country to which the container belongs shown in full or by the ISO country code or by distinguishing initials used to indicate the country of registration of motor vehicles in international traffic or by numbers for swap bodies used in combined rail/road transport

Records concerning import, use and re-export of the goods are required to be kept for 4 years after disposal of the goods.

Additional Procedure Code D02 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Codes (DE 1/10): 5300, 5351, 5353, 5354, 5371, 5378.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

