D03: Temporary Admission; Means of road, rail, air, sea and inland waterway transport
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Means of road, rail, air, sea and inland waterway transport (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 212) and spare parts, accessories and equipment for such goods (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 213-215).

### Goods covered:

Non-EU motor vehicles, civil aircraft, inland waterway vessels or sea going vessels liable to customs duties and import VAT temporarily imported for private or commercial transport use by a person:

 * Established outside the EU
 * A person established inside the EU (only available in circumstances identified in [Notice 3001: customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code))

Means of Transport (MoT) eligible for relief:

 * Motorised road vehicles including cycles with engines, trailers/caravans imported with the vehicle or separately, component parts, normal accessories and equipment imported with the vehicle
 * Rail transport (rail engines, railcars and rolling stock) of any description
 * Sea going vessels of any description used to transport goods or persons including pleasure craft such as yachts
 * Inland waterway vessels of any description used to transport goods to persons

### Conditions for use:

This Additional Procedure Code is only to be used when instructed by HMRC for when there are concerns over eligibility or entitlement to the claim for relief using \xe2\x80\x98any other act\xe2\x80\x99 or \xe2\x80\x98oral declaration\xe2\x80\x99 procedures and have instructed that a written customs declaration must be made.

### Restrictions on usage:

This code is not appropriate for MoT that are temporarily imported for a use other than for transport purposes. For details of other reliefs that may be available (for example; for sports purposes, exhibition or testing), see Notice 3001.

### Notices:

[Customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code (Notice 3001)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Authorisation by Customs Declaration users only. Only to be completed where the party using the Temporary Admission goods is not the importer (DE 3/15 or DE 3/16). |  GEN21 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Holders of a full Temporary Admission authorisation only. Only to be completed where the person using the goods is not the Temporary Admission authorisation holder (DE 3/16 and DE 3/39). |  GEN27 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: State how long the goods will be used and the intended date for re-exportation. |  GEN28 |  Enter the duration the goods intended usage followed by the intended date of re-export. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: Enter the article under which the Temporary Admission relief is claimed. |  GEN29 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98EU Reg. No. 2015/2446\xe2\x80\x99 followed by the appropriate article number for the relief: articles 207 \xe2\x80\x93 236 refer. | 
 
### Security required:

Security must be provided and will be brought to account if it is established that the person and/or the goods covered are not eligible for relief.

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

The means of transport must be re-exported using Procedure Code (DE 1/10) 3153.

### Notes:

If the MoT is to be used for longer than the period identified in DE 2/2, contact the NTAS (The maximum period goods may remain for use under TA relief is 24 months).

Records concerning import, use and re-export of the goods are required to be kept for 4 years after disposal of the goods.

Additional Procedure Code D03 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Codes (DE 1/10): 5300, 5351, 5353, 5354, 5371, 5378.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

