D04: Temporary Admission; Personal effects and goods for sports purposes imported by travellers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Personal effects or goods for sports purposes imported by travellers (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 219).

### Goods covered:

 * Travellers personal effects or goods for sports purposes (accompanied or unaccompanied) more than 10,000 Euros* in value or
 * Firearms and ammunition (regardless of their value) or pets, imported by a person normally resident outside the EU.

An illustrative list of personal effects and sports goods can be found in Notice 3001.

*See Restriction on usage below for goods of this nature under 10,000 Euros.

### Conditions for use:

Personal effects are articles new or used which a traveller may reasonably need for their personal use during a journey but excludes any goods imported for commercial purposes. (A traveller is a person temporarily entering the customs territory of the EU, not normally resident there.) or

Goods for sports purposes are articles new or used which a traveller may reasonably need for their sports use during their stay in the Union but excludes any goods imported for commercial purposes. (A traveller is a person temporarily entering the customs territory of the EU, not normally resident there.)

### Restrictions on usage:

A declaration using this Additional Procedure Code is only required for personal effects/goods for sports purposes with a value of less than 10,000 Euros, where such goods have been incorrectly declared (with payment of customs duties/import VAT) and a retrospective claim to the relief needs to be made.

### Notices:

[Customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code (Notice 3001)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Authorisation by Customs Declaration users only. Only to be completed where the party using the Temporary Admission goods is not the importer (DE 3/15 or DE 3/16). |  GEN21 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Holders of a full Temporary Admission authorisation only. Only to be completed where the person using the goods is not the Temporary Admission authorisation holder (DE 3/16 and DE 3/39). |  GEN27 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: State how long the goods will be used and the intended date for re-exportation. |  GEN28 |  Enter the duration the goods intended usage followed by the intended date of re-export. | 
 
### Security required:

Security for customs duties and import VAT will be needed for goods more than 10,000 Euros in value and will be brought to account if it is established that the person and/or the goods covered are not eligible for relief.

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

When the goods are re-exported from the EU a declaration using procedure code (DE 1/10) 3153 must be used.

### Notes:

If the goods are to be used for longer than the period identified in DE 2/2, contact the NTAS (The maximum period goods may remain for use under TA relief is 24 months).

Records concerning import, use and re-export of the goods are required to be kept for 4 years after disposal of the goods.

Additional Procedure Code D04 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Codes (DE 1/10): 5300.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

