D05: Temporary Admission; Welfare material for seafarers
--------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Welfare material for seafarers (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 220).

### Goods covered:

Welfare materials for seafarers more than 10,000 Euros* in value.

Goods include

 * Reading material, such as books of any kind, correspondence courses, newspapers, journals and periodicals, pamphlets on welfare facilities in ports
 * Audio visual material such as sound and image reproducing instruments, tape- recorders, radio sets, television sets, cinematographic and other projectors, recording on tapes or discs (language courses, radio programmes, greeting, music and entertainment), films, exposed and developed, film slides, videotapes
 * Sports gear, such as sportswear, balls, rackets and nets, deck games, athletic equipment, gymnastic equipment
 * Hobby material such as indoor games, musical instruments, material for amateur dramatics, materials for painting, sculpture, woodwork and metalwork, carpet making etc
 * Equipment for religious activities and parts and accessories for welfare material

*See Restriction on usage below for goods of this nature under 10,000 Euros.

### Conditions for use:

Relief will be granted for goods that are;

 * Used on a vessel engaged in international maritime traffic including goods from such vessels
 * Unloaded from such a vessel and temporarily used ashore by the crew
 * Used by the crew of such a vessel in cultural or social establishments managed by non-profit making organisations or in places of worship where services for seafarers are regularly held

### Restrictions on usage:

A declaration using this Additional Procedure Code is only required for goods with a value of less than 10,000 Euros, where such goods have been incorrectly declared (with payment of customs duties/import VAT) and a retrospective claim to the relief needs to be made.

### Notices:

[Customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code (Notice 3001)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Authorisation by Customs Declaration users only. Only to be completed where the party using the Temporary Admission goods is not the importer (DE 3/15 or DE 3/16). |  GEN21 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Holders of a full Temporary Admission authorisation only. Only to be completed where the person using the goods is not the Temporary Admission authorisation holder (DE 3/16 and DE 3/39). |  GEN27 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: State how long the goods will be used and the intended date for re-exportation. |  GEN28 |  Enter the duration the goods intended usage followed by the intended date of re-export. | 
 
### Security required:

Security for customs duties and import VAT will be needed for goods more than 10,000 Euros in value and will be brought to account if it is established that the person and/or the goods covered are not eligible for relief.

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

When the goods are re-exported from the EU a declaration using procedure code (DE 1/10) 3153 must be used.

### Notes:

If the goods are to be used for longer than the period identified in DE 2/2, contact the NTAS (The maximum period goods may remain for use under TA relief is 24 months).

Records concerning import, use and re-export of the goods are required to be kept for 4 years after disposal of the goods.

Additional Procedure Code D05 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Codes (DE 1/10): 5300, 5351, 5353, 5354, 5371, 5378.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

