D08: Temporary Admission; Animals (twelve months or more)
---------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Animals (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 223).

### Goods covered:

Animals owned by a person established outside the EU.

### Conditions for use:

The Animals temporarily imported under this Additional Procedure Code must remain in the Union for a minimum period of 12 months.

Eligible uses whilst in the EU may include:

 * Training; Temporary Admissions: State how long the goods will be used and the intended date for re-exportation.
 * Breeding;
 * Shoeing or weighing;
 * Veterinary treatment includingVeterinary examinations/trial\xe2\x80\x99, for example, with a view to purchase;
 * Participation in shows, Dressage, Exhibitions; Contests, Competitions or demonstrations, Entertainment,
 * Touring, including pet animals of travellers;
 * Exercise of function, for example, police dogs or horses, detector dogs, dogs for the blind; Rescue operations;
 * Transhumance or grazing;
 * Performance of work;
 * Medical purposes, for example, delivery of snake poison.

### Restrictions on usage:

Where Animals are being temporarily imported for a period of less than 12-months, this Additional Procedure Code may not be used.

A written customs declaration using this Additional Procedure Code is not required for animals temporarily imported for:

 * Grazing,
 * Seasonal moving of livestock between regions,
 * For performance of work or
 * The animal is a saddle or draught animal being imported for private use

An application for relief may be made using the \xe2\x80\x98oral declaration\xe2\x80\x99 procedure. Where eligible to use an oral declaration, security will not normally be required.

### Notices:

[Customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code (Notice 3001)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Authorisation by Customs Declaration users only. Only to be completed where the party using the Temporary Admission goods is not the importer (DE 3/15 or DE 3/16). |  GEN21 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Holders of a full Temporary Admission authorisation only. Only to be completed where the person using the goods is not the Temporary Admission authorisation holder (DE 3/16 and DE 3/39). |  GEN27 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: State how long the goods will be used and the intended date for re-exportation. |  GEN28 |  Enter the duration the goods intended usage followed by the intended date of re-export. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: State the purpose of the importation including the sequence and locations where the goods are to be used. |  GEN30 |  Enter the use to which the Temporary Admission goods will be put and the intended locations for the goods usage. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: Used to declare non-EU ownership of goods claiming temporary admission. |  GEN31 |  Enter the name and address of the non-EU owner of the goods followed by the type of ownership evidence held. | 
 
### Security required:

Security must be provided and will be brought to account if it is established that the person and/or animals are not eligible for relief.

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

Evidence of non-EU ownership must be sent to the supervising office with a reference to this entry declaration.

When the animals are re-exported from the EU a declaration using procedure code (DE 1/10) 3153 must be used.

### Notes:

If the animals are to be used for longer than the period identified in DE 2/2, contact the NTAS (The maximum period goods may remain for use under TA relief is 24 months).

Records concerning import, use and re-export of the goods are required to be kept for 4 years after disposal of the goods.

Additional Procedure Code D08 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Codes (DE 1/10): 5300, 5353, 5371, 5378.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

