D09: Temporary Admission; Goods for use in frontier zone
--------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Goods for use in frontier zone (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 224).

### Goods covered:

Goods for use in frontier zones with relief from customs duties and import.

### Conditions for use:

The equipment must meet all of the following conditions:

 * Be owned by a person established in a frontier zone of a non-Union Territory
 * That is adjacent to the frontier zone of temporary importation (within the Territory of the customs union) and
 * Used by a person established in the Union frontier zone of temporary import.

The goods may also be eligible when used for the building, repair or maintenance of infrastructure in Union frontier zones where temporarily imported from an adjacent non-Union frontier zone under the responsibility of public authorities.

An oral declaration may be made unless HMRC expressly requires a written customs declaration.

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code is only to be used when instructed by HMRC.

### Notices:

[Customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code (Notice 3001)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Authorisation by Customs Declaration users only. Only to be completed where the party using the Temporary Admission goods is not the importer (DE 3/15 or DE 3/16). |  GEN21 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Holders of a full Temporary Admission authorisation only. Only to be completed where the person using the goods is not the Temporary Admission authorisation holder (DE 3/16 and DE 3/39). |  GEN27 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: State how long the goods will be used and the intended date for re-exportation. |  GEN28 |  Enter the duration the goods intended usage followed by the intended date of re-export. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: State the purpose of the importation including the sequence and locations where the goods are to be used. |  GEN30 |  Enter the use to which the Temporary Admission goods will be put and the intended locations for the goods usage. | 
 
### Security required:

Security must be provided and will be brought to account if it is established that the person and/or goods are not eligible for relief.

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

The following information is to be provided to the Supervising Office, National Temporary Admission Seat (NTAS):

 * For equipment: evidence that is owned by a person established in the frontier zone adjacent to the frontier zone of temporary importation and used by a person established in that adjacent frontier zone
 * For goods used for the building, repair or maintenance of infrastructure in the frontier zone - evidence that such work is carried out under the responsibility of public authorities

When the goods are re-exported from the EU a declaration using procedure code (DE 1/10) 3153 must be used.

### Notes:

If the goods are to be used for longer than the period identified in DE 2/2, contact the NTAS (The maximum period goods may remain for use under TA relief is 24 months).

Records concerning import, use and re-export of the pallets are required to be kept for 4 years after disposal of the goods.

Additional Procedure Code D09 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Codes (DE 1/10): 5300, 5351, 5353, 5354, 5371, 5378.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

