D12: Temporary Admission; Professional equipment
------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Professional equipment (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 226).

### Goods covered:

Professional equipment with relief from customs duties and import VAT.

A list of goods that can be entered is given in [paragraph 3.8 of Annex C, Notice 3001: customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code/annex-c)

### Conditions for use:

Goods must be:

 * Owned by a person established outside the EU
 * Imported either by a person established outside the EU or by an employee of the owner (the employee may be established in the EU)
 * Used by the importer or under their supervision, except in cases of visual co-production

### Restrictions on usage:

A written customs declaration using this Additional Procedure Code is not required for the temporary import of the following goods:

 * Portable musical instruments (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Articles 136(1)(i), 139 and 141))
 * Equipment for sound/tele broadcasting (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 136(1)(k))
 * Equipment for doctor to assist patients awaiting an organ transplant (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 136(1)(g)).

### Relief does not apply:

 * To equipment to be used for the industrial manufacture or packing of goods
 * For the exploitation of natural resources (except hand tools)
 * For the construction, repair or maintenance of buildings (except hand tools)
 * On earth moving and like projects (except hand tools)

### Notices:

[Customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code (Notice 3001)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Authorisation by Customs Declaration users only. Only to be completed where the party using the Temporary Admission goods is not the importer (DE 3/15 or DE 3/16). |  GEN21 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Holders of a full Temporary Admission authorisation only. Only to be completed where the person using the goods is not the Temporary Admission authorisation holder (DE 3/16 and DE 3/39). |  GEN27 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: State how long the goods will be used and the intended date for re-exportation. |  GEN28 |  Enter the duration the goods intended usage followed by the intended date of re-export | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: State the purpose of the importation including the sequence and locations where the goods are to be used. |  GEN30 |  Enter the use to which the Temporary Admission goods will be put and the intended locations for the goods usage. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: Used to declare non-EU ownership of goods claiming temporary admission. |  GEN31 |  Enter the name and address of the non-EU owner of the goods followed by the type of ownership evidence held. | 
 
### Security required:

Security must be provided and will be brought to account if it is established that the person and/or goods are not eligible for relief

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

Evidence of non-EU ownership must be sent to the National Temporary Admission Seat (NTAS). If the equipment is to be used on behalf of the authorisation holder, evidence that they are an employee of the owner must also be sent to the NTAS together with a reference to this entry declaration.

When the goods are re-exported from the EU a declaration using procedure code (DE 1/10) 3153 must be used.

### Notes:

If the goods are to be used for longer than the period identified in DE 2/2, contact the National Temporary Admission Seat (NTAS) (The maximum period goods may remain for use under TA relief is 24 months).

Records concerning import, use and re-export of the goods are required to be kept for 4 years after disposal of the goods.

Additional Procedure Code D12 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Codes (DE 1/10): 5300, 5351, 5353, 5354, 5371, 5378.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

