D15: Temporary Admission; Packings, empty
-----------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Packings, empty (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 228).

### Goods covered:

Non-EU packings (imported empty) that are intended for re-exportation filled.

A list of eligible packings is given in Annex C, Notice 3001: customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code.

 * Articles used or intended to be used as packing\xe2\x80\x99s in the same state as they are entered
 * Articles used, or intended to be used, as internal or external coverings for goods
 * Holders on which goods are, or are intended to be, rolled, wound or attached
 * Materials needed for protecting, stowing or separating goods in transit which may consist of planks, blankets, mats and pads for protecting goods

### Conditions for use:

This Additional Procedure Code must only be used for non-EU packing which is imported empty.

### Restrictions on usage:

Packings under the Temporary Admission procedure must not be used for goods picked up or loaded within the EU for transport and unloading within the EU, except with a view to the export of those goods.

This cannot be used for packing which has goods inside (full). Full packing should be declared using the relevant PAL AI Statement in DE 2/2 according to the completion notes for the Procedure Code (DE 1/10). Please see [Appendix 1: DE 1/10: Requested and Previous Procedure Codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/appendix-1-de-110-requested-and-previous-procedure-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds).

### Notices:

[Customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code (Notice 3001)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Authorisation by Customs Declaration users only. Only to be completed where the party using the Temporary Admission goods is not the importer (DE 3/15 or DE 3/16). |  GEN21 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Holders of a full Temporary Admission authorisation only. Only to be completed where the person using the goods is not the Temporary Admission authorisation holder (DE 3/16 and DE 3/39). |  GEN27 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: State how long the goods will be used and the intended date for re-exportation. |  GEN28 |  Enter the duration the goods intended usage followed by the intended date of re-export. | 
 
### Security required

This additional procedure code does not require security.

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

When packings imported empty are re-exported filled, the declaration should be in respect of the goods being exported using the packings and should include the AI statement PAL06 in DE 2/2. When packings imported empty are re-exported empty they should be re-exported from the EU on a declaration using procedure code (DE 1/10) 3153 must be used.

### Notes:

If the packings are to be used for longer than the period identified in DE 2/2, contact the National Temporary Admission Seat (NTAS) (The maximum period goods may remain for use under TA relief is 24 months).

Records concerning import, use and re-export of the goods are required to be kept for 4 years after disposal of the goods.

The UK and EU have strict controls on the importation of wood packing material to prevent the introduction of pest species harmful to commercial forestry interests.

For further information on these requirements, you should contact:

Plant Health Service   
Forestry Commission   
Silvan House   
231 Corstorphine Road   
EDINBURGH   
EH12 7AT   
Telephone: 0300 067 5155  
Email: plant.health@forestry.gov.uk  


Additional Procedure Code D15 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Codes (DE 1/10): 5300, 5351, 5353, 5354, 5371, 5378.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

