D19: Temporary Admission; Goods imported, subject to satisfactory acceptance tests, in connection with a sales contract
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Goods imported, subject to satisfactory acceptance tests, in connection with a sales contract (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 231(b)).

### Goods covered:

Goods subject to satisfactory acceptance tests in connection with a sales contract containing provisions of the satisfactory acceptance tests and subjected to those tests.

### Conditions for use:

Goods must be imported for testing with a view to subsequent purchase.

### Restrictions on usage:

Where the goods are not intended to undergo pre-purchase testing, this Additional Procedure Code must not be used.

This code is not to be used for goods used to carry out tests, experiments or demonstrations (see Additional Procedure Code D20) or for goods subject to tests, experiments or demonstrations (see Additional Procedure Code D18).

### Notices:

[Customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code (Notice 3001)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Authorisation by Customs Declaration users only. Only to be completed where the party using the Temporary Admission goods is not the importer (DE 3/15 or DE 3/16). |  GEN21 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Holders of a full Temporary Admission authorisation only. Only to be completed where the person using the goods is not the Temporary Admission authorisation holder (DE 3/16 and DE 3/39). |  GEN27 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: State how long the goods will be used and the intended date for re-exportation. |  GEN28 |  Enter the duration the goods intended usage followed by the intended date of re-export. | 
 
### Security required:

Security must be provided and will be brought to account if it is established that the person and/or goods are not eligible for relief.

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

Details of the sales contract containing provisions of the satisfactory acceptance tests, must be sent to the National Temporary Admission Seat (NTAS) with a reference to this import entry declaration.

If the goods are not accepted after tests the goods have to be re-exported from the EU, if the goods are accepted and will remain in the EU a diversion entry to free circulation using requested/previous Procedure Code (DE 1/10) 4053 should be made.

When the goods are re-exported from the EU a declaration using procedure code (DE 1/10) 3153 must be used.

### Notes:

If the goods are to be used for longer than the period identified in DE 2/2, contact the National Temporary Admission Seat (NTAS) (The maximum period goods may remain for use under TA relief is 24 months).

Records concerning import, use and re-export of the goods are required to be kept for 4 years after disposal of the goods.

Additional Procedure Code D19 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Codes (DE 1/10): 5300, 5351, 5353, 5354, 5371, 5378.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

