D23: Temporary Admission; Goods for events or for sale
------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Goods to be exhibited or used at a public event (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 234(1)).

### Goods covered:

Relief from customs duty and import VAT for goods to be exhibited or used at a public event not purely organised for the commercial sale of the goods, or obtained at such events from goods placed under the temporary admission procedure

### Conditions for use:

This Additional Procedure code may only be used for goods temporarily imported for an exhibition or event.

Goods may be sold at the exhibition or event provided this was not the intended purpose of the event or their temporary admission.

### Restrictions on usage:

Goods are eligible provided the exhibition or event is not:

 * Purely organised for commercial sale of the imported goods
 * Organised for private purposes in shops or businesses with a view to their sale.

### Notices:

[Customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code (Notice 3001)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

### Additional information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Authorisation by Customs Declaration users only. Only to be completed where the party using the Temporary Admission goods is not the importer (DE 3/15 or DE 3/16). |  GEN21 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Holders of a full Temporary Admission authorisation only. Only to be completed where the person using the goods is not the Temporary Admission authorisation holder (DE 3/16 and DE 3/39). |  GEN27 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Temporary Admission for exhibitions. |  GEN33 |  Enter details of when and where the exhibition/event will take place and the intended date of re-export. | 
 
### Security required:

Security must be provided and will be brought to account if it is established that the person and/or goods are not eligible for relief.

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

If the goods are sold at the event and will remain in the EU, a diversion entry must be made using Procedure Code 4053 in DE 1/10. A copy of the sales invoice must be sent to the NTAS.

When the goods are re-exported from the EU a declaration using procedure code (DE 1/10) 3153 must be used.

### Notes:

If the goods stated in DE 6/8 will be exhibited or used for longer than the period identified in DE 2/2, contact the National Temporary Admission Seat (NTAS). The maximum period goods may be exhibited or used at an event under TA is 24 months.

Records concerning import, use and re-export of the goods are required to be kept for 4 years after disposal of the goods.

Additional Procedure Code D23 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Codes (DE 1/10): 5300, 5351, 5353, 5354, 5371, 5378.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

