D24: Temporary Admission; Goods for approval (six months)
---------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Goods for approval (six months) (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 234(2)).

### Goods covered:

Goods for approval (liable to customs duties and import VAT) that cannot be imported as samples, which the consignor wishes to sell, and the importer may decide to purchase after inspection.

### Conditions for use:

Goods may be temporarily imported for inspection with a view to purchase.

### Restrictions on usage:

The maximum period these goods may remain under TA is 6 months.

Goods may not undergo pre-purchase testing.

### Notices:

[Customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code (Notice 3001)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Temporary Admission: Goods for approval. Enter the details of the prospective buyer of the goods where different from the importer (DE 3/15 or DE 3/16). |  GEN24 |  Enter the name and address of the prospective buyer of the goods. | 
 
### Security required:

Security must be provided and will be brought to account if it is established that the person and/or goods are not eligible for relief.

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

If the prospective buyer identified on the entry doesn\xe2\x80\x99t purchase after inspection or does purchase but will re-export the goods from the EU, a re-export declaration must be made within 2 months of the entry to TA.

If a longer period is needed contact the National Temporary Admission Seat (NTAS), an extension within reasonable limits, up to a maximum period of 6 months, may be considered but only in exceptional circumstances.

If the prospective buyer identified on the entry:

 * Purchases the goods and the goods will remain in the EU, a diversion entry must be made using Procedure Code (DE 1/10) 4053 to pay the customs charges due, a copy of the sales invoice must also be attached to the diversion entry
 * Purchases the goods but the goods will not remain in the EU, liability to customs charges relieved will be discharged provided the goods are re-exported from the EU, this should be completed within 30 days of sale
 * Doesn\xe2\x80\x99t purchase the goods, they should re-export from the EU within 6 months of import and evidence of the disposal must be sent to the NTAS

When the goods are re-exported from the EU a declaration using procedure code (DE 1/10) 3153 must be used.

### Notes:

 * Records concerning import, use and re-export of the goods are required to be kept for 4 years after disposal of the goods.

Additional Procedure Code D24 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Codes (DE 1/10): 5300, 5351, 5353, 5354, 5371, 5378.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

