D27: Temporary Admission; Spare parts, accessories and equipment
----------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Spare parts, accessories and equipment (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 235).

### Goods covered:

Spare parts, accessories and equipment for use in the repair, maintenance, overhaul, adjustments or preservation of goods held under Temporary Admission.

### Conditions for use:

The spare parts, accessories and equipment temporarily imported under this Additional Procedure Code must relate to goods previously temporarily imported and still held under TA.

### Restrictions on usage:

The goods temporarily imported under this Additional Procedure Code must be re-exported from the EU when the repair, maintenance, overhaul adjustments or preservation operations have been completed.

The goods temporarily imported under this Additional Procedure Code must be re-exported at the latest when the TA goods on which they have been used are re-exported.

### Notices:

[Customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code (Notice 3001)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Authorisation by Customs Declaration users only. Only to be completed where the party using the Temporary Admission goods is not the importer (DE 3/15 or DE 3/16). |  GEN21 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Temporary Admission for spare parts and accessories. |  GEN35 |  Enter the MRN of the import declaration or clearance request on which the original goods were entered to TA, for which these spare parts and accessories are to be used. | 
 
### Security required:

Security must be provided and will be brought to account if it is established that the person and/or goods are not eligible for relief.

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

When the goods are re-exported from the EU a declaration using procedure code (DE 1/10) 3153 must be used.

### Notes:

The period of relief will be for the time the goods are needed to be used to repair, maintain, overhaul, adjustment or preserve goods already held under TA.

Records concerning import, use and re-export of the goods are required to be kept for 4 years after disposal of the goods.

Additional Procedure Code D27 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Codes (DE 1/10): 5300, 5351, 5353, 5354, 5371, 5378.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

