D30: Means of transport for persons established outside the customs territory of the Union or for persons preparing the transfer of their normal place of residence outside that territory:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Means of Transport for persons established outside the EU or persons preparing the transfer of their normal place of residence outside the EU (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 216).

### Goods covered:

Means of Transport can be declared for Temporary Admission if they are registered in the Union with a view to re-export in the name of one of the following persons:

 * A person established outside the EU;
 * A natural person who has his or her habitual residence inside that territory where that person is preparing to transfer normal residence to a place outside the EU.

### Conditions for use:

This Additional Procedure Code is only to be used for importation of personal Means of Transport.

### Restrictions on usage:

This code is not appropriate for Means of Transport that are temporarily imported for anything other than private transport purposes.

For details of other reliefs that may be available (for example; for sports purposes, exhibition or testing), see Notice 3001.

### Notices:

[Customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code (Notice 3001)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Authorisation by Customs Declaration users only. Only to be completed where the party using the Temporary Admission goods is not the importer (DE 3/15 or DE 3/16). |  GEN21 |  Enter the name and address details of the party using the goods. | 
 |  Temporary Admissions: State how long the goods will be used and the intended date for re-exportation. |  GEN28 |  Enter the duration the goods intended usage followed by the intended date of re-export. | 
 
### Security required:

Security must be provided and will be brought to account if it is established that the person and/or goods are not eligible for relief.

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

The means of transport must be re-exported using Procedure Code (DE 1/10) 3153.

### Notes:

If the Means of Transport is to be used for longer than the period identified in DE 2/2, contact the NTAS (The maximum period goods may remain for use under Temporary Admission relief is 24 months).

Records concerning import, use and re-export of the goods are required to be kept for 4 years after disposal of the goods.

Additional Procedure Code D30 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Codes (DE 1/10): 5300, 5351, 5353, 5354, 5371, 5378.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

