D51: Temporary Admission; Temporary Admission with partial relief from duties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Temporary Admission with partial relief from duties (Commission Delegated Reg. (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 206).

### Goods covered:

Non-EU goods entered for Temporary Admission with partial relief from Customs Duty.

### Conditions for use:

Only to be used where a Full or Multi-State Temporary Admission authorisation is held.

The Temporary Admission authorisation will state the conditions and requirements applicable to the goods and uses to be made of them.

### Restrictions on usage:

Authorisation by Customs Declaration may not be used with this Additional Procedure Code.

Not for use with consumable goods.

### Notices:

[Customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code (Notice 3001)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

This additional procedure code requires security in the form of a Customs Comprehensive Guarantee.

### VAT:

Import VAT must be paid on importation at the rate appropriate to the goods.

### Post clearance action:

When the goods are re-exported from the EU a declaration using procedure code (DE 1/10) 3153 must be used.

### Notes:

3% of the duty will be due every month or fraction of a month that the goods remain in the EU, up to a maximum of the amount of duty that would have been payable had the goods been released to free circulation on the day they entered temporary admission.

Records concerning import, use and re-export of the goods are required to be kept for 4 years after disposal of the goods.

Additional Procedure Code D51 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure Codes (DE 1/10): 5300, 5351, 5353, 5354, 5371, 5378.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

   [    Contents](#contents)   Print this page       