E01: Use of the Unit Price for the Determination of the Customs Value for Certain Perishable Goods (Article 74(2)(c) of the Code and Article 142(6) of Commission Implementing Regulation No. (EU) 2015/2447.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

For certain perishable goods imported, it is possible to determine the customs value on the unit price. Such unit prices may be used to determine the customs value of the imported goods for a period of 14 days. Each period shall start on a Friday. (Article 74(2)(c) of EU Reg. No. 952/2013 Union Customs Code (UCC)) and Article 142(6) of Commission Implementing Regulation No. (EU) 2015/2447.

### Goods covered:

Imports of fresh fruit and vegetables with the customs value and duty calculated using a Simplified Procedure Value (SPV).

### Conditions for use:

For use with imports of fresh fruit and vegetables which are not covered by an invoice value for the transaction.

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code must not be used if there is an invoice value for the transaction.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Notices:

[Notice 252: Valuation of imported goods for customs purposes, VAT and trade statistics](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-252-valuation-of-imported-goods-for-customs-purposes-vat-and-trade-statistics)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

As defined in the main UK Trade Tariff CDS Volume 3 Import Declaration completion guide, the listed data elements should be completed as follows:

 * DE 4/16: Valuation Method: code \xe2\x80\x984\xe2\x80\x99 must be declared

The following data elements should be left blank:

 * DE 4/1: Delivery Terms,
 * DE 4/4: Tax Base,
 * DE 4/9: Additions and Deductions,
 * DE 4/11: Total Amount Invoiced,
 * DE 4/13: Valuation Indicator,
 * DE 4/14: Item Price/Amount,
 * DE 5/21: Place of Loading

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

CDS will calculate the value using the commodity code, net mass and current SPV rate.

Additional Procedure Code E01 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure codes (DE 1/10): 0100, 0171, 0178, 4000, 4071, 4078, 4200, 4271, 4278, 4400, 4471, 4478.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

