E02: Standard Import Values (SIV) as published in the EU Official Journal (OJ)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Imports of fresh fruit and vegetables listed in Annex VII, Part A to Commission Delegated Regulation 2017/891, declared to home use with the value and duty calculated using a Standard Import Value (SIV) as published in the \xe2\x80\x98L\xe2\x80\x99 series of Official Journals (OJ) of the EU.

### Goods covered:

Imports of fresh fruit and vegetables with the customs value and duty calculated using a Standard Import Value (SIV) (as listed in Annex VII, Part A Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 2017/891) and the Official Journals (OJ) of the EU.

### Conditions for use:

For use with imports of fresh fruit and vegetables which are not covered by an invoice value for the transaction and where an SIV rate is published in the OJ.

### Restrictions on usage:

This Additional Procedure Code is only to be used during periods for which a SIV is in force for the product being declared.

This Additional Procedure Code must not be used if there is an invoice value for the transaction.

This Additional Procedure Code cannot be used with Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Notices:

[Notice 252: Valuation of imported goods for customs purposes, VAT and trade statistics](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-252-valuation-of-imported-goods-for-customs-purposes-vat-and-trade-statistics)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

As defined in the main UK Trade Tariff, CDS Volume 3 Import Declaration completion guide, the listed data elements should be completed as follows:

 * DE 4/16: Valuation Method: code \xe2\x80\x984\xe2\x80\x99 must be declared

The following data elements should also be left blank:

 * DE 4/1: Delivery Terms,
 * DE 4/4: Tax Base,
 * DE 4/9: Additions and Deductions,
 * DE 4/11: Total Amount Invoiced,
 * DE 4/13: Valuation Indicator and
 * DE 4/14: Item Price/Amount

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

The Additional Procedure Code must only be used to declare goods listed in Annex VII, Part A to Commission Delegated Regulation 2017/891 when a SIV is available and when that SIV has been used to establish the customs value of the goods.

SIV rates are published daily in the \xe2\x80\x98L\xe2\x80\x99 series of Official Journals of the EU and can be viewed against the commodity on the TARIC database.

CDS will calculate the value using the commodity code, net mass and current SIV rate.

Additional Procedure Code E02 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure codes (DE 1/10): 0100, 0171, 0178, 4000, 4071, 4078, 4200, 4271, 4278, 4400, 4471, 4478.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

   [    Contents](#contents)   Print this page       