F02: Relief from import duties for returned goods (Special circumstances provided for in Article 159 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/2446: agriculture goods)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

RGR: Relief from import duties for returned goods (RGR, Article 203, EU Reg. No. 952/2013 Union Customs Code (UCC)); Special circumstances provided for in Article 159 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/2446; Agricultural goods.

### Goods covered:

Re-importation of agricultural goods in special circumstances claiming Returned Goods Relief (RGR) for customs duty purposes only that were in free circulation when previously exported from the customs territory of the EU or a territory with which it has formed a Customs Union.

### Conditions for use:

This Additional Procedure Code is used to claim customs duty relief for agricultural goods under RGR on their release to free circulation for goods re-imported in an unaltered state (Article 203 EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (UCC)).

Goods must return in an un-altered state, to the Union within 1 year of export (unless a waiver has been granted).

Any customs duties or other charges previously refunded at export must be repaid prior to the release of the goods.

Any customs duties not relieved under RGR must be paid or accounted for on their release to free circulation under Article 195, EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (UCC))

Evidence must be available to demonstrate the Union status of the goods at their original export.

No changes may be made to the goods, other than to maintain them in the same working condition as they were exported.

No changes may be made to the goods that will increase the value or upgrade the specification.

Please see [Notice 236](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-236-returned-goods-relief) for additional conditions for eligibility for RGR.

These notes must be read in conjunction with the appropriate 4-digit Procedure Code completion notes used on the declaration (DE 1/10).

### Restrictions on usage:

Evidence of eligibility for customs duty relief under RGR must be held at the time of release to free circulation.

Goods must not have been exported for the purpose of repair or process.

Any revenue re-claimed at export must be re-paid at import (for example, CAP export refund).

Where an INF document code is declared in DE 2/3, Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) may not be used.

### Notices:

[Notice 236: Returned Goods Relief](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-236-returned-goods-relief)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

The following AI statement must be included in DE 2/2 where a waiver of the 1-year time limit is being claimed:



  |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0Usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0Code |  AI statement code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  Relief claimed under Returned Goods Relief. Waiver of time limit claimed. |  GEN03 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98Waiver of time limit claimed\xe2\x80\x99 | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

To claim relief from VAT: Additional Procedure Code 1RV, Additional Information (DE 2/2) code RVAT1 and Document Code (DE 2/3) 9AIV must also be used.

In order to be eligible for VAT relief at re-import, the legal declarant at export and re-import must be the same entity (the EORI number or named person shown in DE 3/1 or DE 3/2 at export and DE 3/15 or DE 3/16 at import must be the same).

VAT relief cannot be claimed if the goods were sold while outside the European Union unless the specific conditions in [Notice 236](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-236-returned-goods-relief) are met.

### Excise:

Relief of excise duty is not available under RGR.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Application of customs duty relief is automatically applied by use of this code in DE 1/11.

If claiming Returned Goods Relief together with Onward Supply Dispatch (Requested Procedure Code 01), or Onward Supply Relief (Requested Procedure Code 42), then use Additional Procedure Code 63P instead of F02.

If claiming Returned Goods Relief together with End Use, then use Additional Procedure Code 1RL instead of F02.

Additional Procedure Code F02 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure codes (DE 1/10): 6110, 6123, 7123.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

