F03: Relief from import duties for returned goods (Special circumstances provided for in Article 158(2) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/2446 repair or restoration)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

RGR: Relief from import duties for returned goods (RGR, Article 203, EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (Union Customs Code (UCC)), under the special circumstances provided for in Article 158(2) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/2446.

The goods were exported with the intention to repair or restore the goods but:

 * where said processing did not take place and the goods are considered to be returned in the state in which they were exported; or
 * where the processing was unsuitable for the intended usage.

### Goods covered:

This Additional Procedure Code is used to claim customs duty relief under RGR on their release to free circulation for goods re-imported and which have not undergone any process or repair outside the territory of the EU.

### Conditions for use:

Any customs duties or other charges previously refunded at export must be repaid prior to the release of the goods.

Any customs duties not relieved under RGR must be paid or accounted for on their release to free circulation under Article 195, EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (UCC)

Evidence must be available to demonstrate the Union status of the goods at their original export.

Goods may be re-imported under this Additional Procedure Code in a processed or restored state only where the processing or restoration has rendered the goods unsuitable for their intended purpose.

Goods must be re-imported within 3 years of their exportation or 6 years for Crown Servants. If a waiver of the 3-year time limit is being claimed (see [Notice 236](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-236-returned-goods-relief)).

Any increase in the value of the goods as a result of the unsuitable processing or restoration, will incur import charges unless it was strictly necessary to enable the goods to be used in the same way as at the time of export.

Any customs duty reclaimed at export must be repaid at import.

Please see Notice 236 for additional conditions for eligibility for RGR.

These notes must be read in conjunction with the appropriate 4-digit Procedure Code completion notes used on the declaration (DE 1/10).

### Restrictions on usage:

Where an INF document code is declared in DE 2/3 are declared, Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) may not be used.

### Notices:

[Notice 236: Returned Goods Relief](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-236-returned-goods-relief)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

The following AI statement must be included in DE 2/2 where a waiver of the 3-year time limit is being claimed:



  |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0code |  AI statement code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  Relief claimed under Returned Goods Relief.  
Waiver of time limit claimed. |  GEN03 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98Waiver of time limit claimed\xe2\x80\x99 | 
 |  Relief claimed under Returned Goods Relief.  
RGR time limit extension to 6 years claimed by Crown Servants  
Note: Crown Servants include diplomatic staff, armed forces, embassy and consular personnel. See Customs Information Paper 2017, no. 28 for details |  GEN3C |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98RGR 6-year time limit claimed: Crown Servant\xe2\x80\x99 | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

To claim relief from VAT, Additional Procedure Code 1RV and DE 2/3 Document Code 9AIV must also be used.

In order to be eligible for VAT relief at re-import, the legal declarant at export and re-import must be the same entity (the EORI number or named person shown in DE 3/1 or DE 3/2 at export and DE 3/15 or DE 3/16 at import must be the same).

VAT relief cannot be claimed if the goods were sold while outside the European Union unless the specific conditions in [Notice 236](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-236-returned-goods-relief) are met.

### Excise:

Relief of excise duty is not available under RGR.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Application of customs duty relief is automatically applied by use of this code in DE 1/11.

If claiming Returned Goods Relief together with Onward Supply Dispatch (Requested Procedure Code 01), or Onward Supply Relief (Requested Procedure Code 42), then use Additional Procedure Code 63P instead of F03.

If claiming Returned Goods Relief together with End Use, then use Additional Procedure Code 1RL instead of F03.

Additional Procedure Code F03 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure codes (DE 1/10): 6110, 6123, 7123.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

