F04: Processed products which return to the European Union after having been previously re-exported subsequent to an inward processing procedure (Article 205(1) of the Code)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Processed products which are re-imported to the European Union after having been previously re-exported after an inward processing procedure (Article 205(1) EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (Union Customs Code (UCC)).

### Goods covered:

Goods previously placed under inward processing, subsequently re-exported from the EU, which are now returning to the EU.

### Conditions for use:

This Additional Procedure Code is used to claim a reduced valuation for duty purposes under RGR on their release to free circulation for goods re-imported in an unaltered state, where the goods were previously re-exported under Inward Processing (IP).

The value for duty purposes is based on the value of the processed product at the time of re-export from the EU.

Any import duties and other charges must be paid or accounted for at re-importation on their release to free circulation under Article 195, EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (UCC). However, the goods may qualify for a reduced Customs Value to be used as the tax base (DE 4/4) for the duty calculation, by using the re-exported goods as the basis for the duty calculations at re-import.

Returned Goods Relief (RGR) may be claimed on any elements of the re-imported products which had Union status at the time of re-export.

Revenue is payable on any non-Union elements of the re-imported products (i.e. any goods/parts originally entered to Inward Processing (IP)).

Goods must return in an un-altered state from export, to the Union within 3 years of export (unless a waiver has been granted). A period of 6 years is allowed for Crown Servants.

No changes may be made to the goods whilst exported, other than to maintain them in the same working condition as they were exported.

No changes may be made to the goods whilst exported that will increase the value or upgrade the specification.

In order to be eligible for VAT relief at re-import, the legal declarant at export and re-import must be the same entity (the EORI number or named person shown in DE 3/1 or DE 3/2 at export and DE 3/15 or DE 3/16 at import must be the same).

VAT relief cannot be claimed if the goods were sold while outside the European Union unless the specific conditions [Notice 236](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-236-returned-goods-relief) are met.

Please see [Notice 236](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-236-returned-goods-relief) for additional conditions for eligibility for RGR.

These notes must be read in conjunction with the appropriate 4-digit Procedure Code completion notes used on the declaration (DE 1/10).

### Restrictions on usage:

Where an INF document code is declared in DE 2/3, Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) may not be used.

### Notices:

[Notice 236: Returned Goods Relief](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-236-returned-goods-relief)

[Notice 3001: customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

The following AI statement codes may be required, enter:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Relief claimed under Returned Goods Relief.  
Waiver of time limit claimed. |  GEN03 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98Waiver of time limit claimed\xe2\x80\x99 | 
 |  Relief claimed under Returned Goods Relief.  
RGR time limit extension to 6 years claimed by Crown Servants  
Note: Crown Servants include diplomatic staff, armed forces, embassy and consular personnel. See Customs Information Paper 2017, no. 28 for details |  GEN3C |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98RGR 6-year time limit claimed: Crown Servant\xe2\x80\x99 | 
 |  On release to free circulation only:  
Duty calculation override  
Note: this code is only to be used where the amount of duty payable is being manually calculated, as required by the customs procedure.  
When used with this Additional Procedure Code, the declared values or prices in DE 4/4 must be the values or prices of the processed/compensating products exported under Inward Processing, on their release to Free-Circulation. |  OVR01 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98Duty Override claimed\xe2\x80\x99 followed by a plain text description of the reason for the override.  
For example:   
Duty override claimed Inward Processing | 
 
#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

On release to free circulation only:

Inward Processing declarations where the value for duty purposes is based on the value of the processed product at the time of re-export from the EU, enter:



  |  Document code |  Document identifier: |  Document status | 
   |  9WKS |  Reference number of the commercial records detailing the duty calculation |  the document status code as AC, AE, AF, AG, AP, AS, AT, JA, JE, or JP as appropriate | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

VAT is payable on any non-Union elements of the re-imported products (i.e. any goods/parts originally entered to Inward Processing (IP)).

### Excise:

Relief of excise duty is not available under RGR.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

For goods entered to Additional Procedure Code F04, import duty will be payable, on their release to free circulation, based on the value and classification of the processed product at the time of re-export from the EU. If paying duty based on the value and classification of the goods as originally entered to Inward Processing, then use Additional Procedure Code F07 rather than F04.

No revenue will be due where the goods are re-entered to IP (use a Procedure Code in the 51 series instead of F04) or placed in a customs warehouse.

If claiming Returned Goods Relief together with Onward Supply Dispatch (Requested Procedure Code) 01, or Onward Supply Relief (Requested Procedure Code) 42, then use Additional Procedure Code 63P instead of F04.

Additional Procedure Code F04 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure codes (DE 1/10): 6131, 7123.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

