F05: Relief from import duties and from VAT for returned goods (Art. 203 of the Code and Art. 143(1)(e) (Directive 2006/112/EC)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

RGR: Relief from import duties and VAT for returned goods (Article 203 of EU Reg. No. 952/2013 Union Customs Code (UCC)) and Article 143(1)(e) (Directive 2006/112/EC).

### Goods covered:

Re-importation of goods claiming Returned Goods Relief (RGR) for customs duty and VAT that were in free circulation when previously exported from the customs territory of the EU or a territory with which it has formed a Customs Union.

### Conditions for use:

This Additional Procedure Code is used to claim customs duty (and where applicable VAT) relief under RGR on their release to free circulation for goods re-imported in an unaltered state, (Article 203 EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (UCC)).

Any customs duties or other charges previously refunded at export (for example VAT zero rated at export) must be repaid prior to the release of the goods.

Any customs duties not relieved under RGR must be paid or accounted for on their release to free circulation under Article 195, EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (UCC)

Evidence must be available to demonstrate the Union status of the goods at their original export.

Goods must return in an un-altered state, to the Union within 3 years of export (unless a waiver has been granted). A period of 6 years is allowed for Crown Servants.

No changes may be made to the goods, other than to maintain them in the same working condition as they were exported.

No changes may be made to the goods that will increase the value or upgrade the specification.

In order to be eligible for VAT relief at re-import, the legal declarant at export and re-import must be the same entity (the EORI number or named person shown in DE 3/1 or DE 3/2 at export and DE 3/15 or DE 3/16 at import must be the same).

VAT relief cannot be claimed if the goods were sold while outside the European Union unless the specific conditions [Notice 236](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-236-returned-goods-relief) are met.

Please see [Notice 236](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-236-returned-goods-relief) for additional conditions for eligibility for RGR.

These notes must be read in conjunction with the appropriate 4-digit Procedure Code completion notes used on the declaration (DE 1/10).

### Restrictions on usage:

Evidence of eligibility for relief under RGR must be held.

Goods must not have been exported for the purpose of repair or process.

Excise duties are not relieved under RGR.

Where an INF document code is declared in DE 2/3, Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) may not be used.

### Notices:

[Notice 236: Returned Goods Relief](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-236-returned-goods-relief)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional information (DE 2/2):

The following AI statements may be required in DE 2/2 where a waiver of the 3-year time limit is being claimed:



  |  Description\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0usage\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0code |  AI statement code |  Details to be entered on the declaration | 
   |  Relief claimed under Returned Goods Relief.  
Waiver of time limit claimed. |  GEN03 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98Waiver of time limit claimed\xe2\x80\x99 | 
 |  Relief claimed under Returned Goods Relief.  
RGR time limit extension to 6 years claimed by Crown Servants  
Note: Crown Servants include diplomatic staff, armed forces, embassy and consular personnel. See Customs Information Paper 2017, no. 28 for details |  GEN3C |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98RGR 6-year time limit claimed: Crown Servant\xe2\x80\x99 | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Excise:

Relief of excise duty is not available under RGR.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

If the goods are not eligible for VAT relief, Additional Procedure Code F01 should be used instead.

If claiming Returned Goods Relief together with Onward Supply Dispatch (Requested Procedure Code 01), or Onward Supply Relief (Requested Procedure Code 42), then use Additional Procedure Code 63P instead of F05.

If claiming Returned Goods Relief together with End Use, then use Additional Procedure Code 1RL instead of F05.

Additional Procedure Code F05 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure codes (DE 1/10): 61 10, 61 11, 61 23, 71 23.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

