F07: Processed products which returned to the European Union after having been previously re-exported subsequent to an inward processing procedure where the import duty is determined in accordance with Article 86(3) of the Code (Article 205(2) of the Code)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Processed products which are re-imported to the European Union after having been previously re-exported after an inward processing procedure where the import duty is determined in accordance with Article 86(3) and Article 205(2) of EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (Union Customs Code (UCC).

### Goods covered:

Goods previously placed under inward processing, subsequently re-exported from the EU, which are now returning to the EU where the customs debt is incurred on the basis of Article 86(3) of the UCC.

### Conditions for use:

This Additional Procedure Code is used to claim a reduced valuation for duty purposes under RGR on their release to free circulation for goods re-imported in an unaltered state, that were previously re-exported under IP (Article 203 EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (UCC)).

The customs value at re-importation may be based upon the raw materials originally entered to IP where the declarant has opted to use the Article 86(3) customs debt rules, as laid down in EU Reg. No. 952/2013.

The description and particulars of the goods entered on the re-import declaration must be completed on the basis of the details declared at re-export. However, the customs duty calculation may be based upon the details of the goods originally entered to IP.

Returned Goods Relief (RGR) may be claimed on their release to free circulation on any elements of the re-imported products which had Union status at the time of re-export.

Duty is payable on their release to free circulation on any non-Union elements of the re-imported products (i.e. any goods/parts originally entered to Inward Processing (IP)). F07 may only be used at re-import where Additional Procedure Code F44 was declared on both the original declaration entering the goods to IP as well as the re-export declaration.

Goods must return in an un-altered state from export, to the Union within 3 years of export (unless a waiver has been granted). A period of 6 years is allowed for Crown Servants.

No changes may be made to the goods whilst exported, other than to maintain them in the same working condition as they were exported.

No changes may be made to the goods whilst exported that will increase the value or upgrade the specification.

In order to be eligible for VAT relief at re-import, the legal declarant at export and re-import must be the same entity (the EORI number or named person shown in DE 3/1 or DE 3/2 at export and DE 3/15 or DE 3/16 at import must be the same).

VAT relief cannot be claimed if the goods were sold while outside the European Union unless the specific conditions [Notice 236](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-236-returned-goods-relief) are met.

Please see [Notice 236](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-236-returned-goods-relief) for additional conditions for eligibility for RGR.

These notes must be read in conjunction with the appropriate 4-digit Procedure Code completion notes used on the declaration (DE 1/10).

### Restriction on usage:

Where F44 was not used to enter the goods to IP originally or was not declared on the previous re-export declaration, the goods are not eligible for F07 on re-import. Additional Procedure Code F04 must be used instead.

Where an INF document code is declared in DE 2/3, Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) may not be used.

### Notices:

[Notice 236: Returned Goods Relief](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-236-returned-goods-relief)

[Notice 3001: customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

#### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

The following AI codes may be required:



  |  Coverage |  AI statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Relief claimed under Returned Goods Relief.  
Waiver of time limit claimed. |  GEN03 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98Waiver of time limit claimed\xe2\x80\x99 | 
 |  Relief claimed under Returned Goods Relief.  
RGR time limit extension to 6 years claimed by Crown Servants  
Note: Crown Servants include diplomatic staff, armed forces, embassy and consular personnel. See Customs Information Paper 2017, no. 28 for details |  GEN3C |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98RGR 6-year time limit claimed: Crown Servant\xe2\x80\x99 | 
 |  Use with A.86(3) UCC debt rules only:  
Declaration that the customs debt for the returned goods is calculated using the Article 86(3) EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (UCC) customs debt rules. |  GEN86 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98Article 86(3)\xe2\x80\x99 | 
 |  On release to free circulation only:  
Duty calculation override  
Note: this code is only to be used where the amount of duty payable is being manually calculated, as required by the customs procedure.  
When used with this Additional Procedure Code, the declared values or prices in DE 4/4 must be the values or prices of the processed/compensating products exported under Inward Processing, on their release to Free-Circulation. |  OVR01 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98Duty Override claimed\xe2\x80\x99 followed by a plain text description of the reason for the override.  
For example:   
Duty override claimed Inward Processing | 
 
#### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

On release to free circulation only:

Inward Processing declarations where Article 86(3) UCC customs debt rules are being used:

Enter:



  |  Document code |  Document identifier: |  Document status | 
   |  9WKS |  Reference number of the commercial records detailing the duty calculation |  the document status code as AC, AE, AF, AG, AP, AS, AT, JA, JE, or JP as appropriate | 
 
### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

VAT is payable on any non-Union elements of the re-imported products (i.e. any goods/parts originally entered to Inward Processing (IP)).

### Excise:

Relief of excise duty is not available under RGR.

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

For goods entered to Additional Procedure Code F07, import duty will be payable based on the value and classification of the goods originally imported into Inward Processing.

If paying duty based on the value of the processed product at the time of re-export from the EU, then use Additional Procedure Code F04 rather than F07.

No revenue will be due where the goods are re-entered to IP (use a Procedure Code in the 51 series instead of F07) or placed in a customs warehouse.

If claiming Returned Goods Relief together with Onward Supply Dispatch (Requested Procedure Code 01), or Onward Supply Relief (Requested Procedure Code 42), then use Additional Procedure Code 63P instead of F07.

Additional Procedure Code F07 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure codes (DE 1/10): 61 31, 71 23.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

