F22: Exemption from import duties of products obtained from products of sea fishing and other products taken from the territorial sea of a country or territory outside the customs territory of the Union on board factory-ships registered or recorded in a Member State and flying the flag of the state
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Claims to relief from import duties with simultaneous release for free circulation and home use of:

 * Products of sea-fishing and other products,
 * Taken from the sea outside the territorial waters of the EU
 * By factory-ships solely registered or recorded in a Member State and flying the flag of that Member State.

### Goods covered:

Products of sea-fishing and other products taken from the sea outside the EU by factory ships registered in an EU member state

### Conditions for use:

The goods must have been removed from the sea by a factory-ship which is solely registered and flying the flag of the Member State of registration. Proof of the customs status of the goods must comply with Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 130.

Proof of the customs status of the goods must comply with Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No. 2015/2446, Article 130.

### Restrictions on usage:

Cannot be used with Entry in Declarants\xe2\x80\x99 Records (EIDR) where a licence or certificate is required at the time the imported goods are released to free circulation.

### Notices:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

VAT is not relieved by this Additional Procedure Code

### Excise:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Additional Procedure Code F22 provides relief from import duty.

Additional Procedure Code F22 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure codes (DE 1/10): 01 00, 01 71, 01 78, 40 00, 40 71, 40 78, 42 00, 42 71, 42 78.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

