F45: Exemption from value added tax on the final importation of certain goods (Council Directive 2009/132/EC (*))
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Description of procedure:

Simultaneous release for free circulation and/ or home use where an exemption from import VAT is claimed in specific circumstances.

### Goods covered:

The application of VAT relief to eligible goods in the DE 1/11 C-Series Additional Procedure Code reliefs.

### Conditions for use:

F45 may only be used to claim import VAT relief when the C-series code specifically permits the use of code F45 in DE 1/11.

### Restrictions on usage:

Additional Procedure Code F45 may not be used to claim import VAT relief where not expressly stated in the relevant C-series DE 1/11 Additional Procedure Code.

Additional Procedure Code F45 may only be used with Simplified Declaration Procedure (SDP) and Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR) where the C-series Additional Procedure Code permits use with these declaration types.

If the C-series Additional Procedure Code being declared in partnership with F45 does not permit use with SDP or EIDR, Additional Procedure Code F45 is also prohibited for that goods treatment.

Please refer to the notes at the end of this Additional Procedure Code for restrictions relating to the use of F45 with Declaration Category I1 B&E (occasional use) data sets.

### Notices:

Please see [Appendix 2: DE 1/11: Additional Procedure Codes C-Series](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/appendix-2-de-111-additional-procedure-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds/additional-procedure-code-c-series-appendix-2a) for details of the applicable notices.

### Specific fields in the declaration/notes on completion:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Security required:

\xe2\x80\x93

### VAT:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Post clearance action:

\xe2\x80\x93

### Notes:

Declaration Category I1 B&E (occasional use) data set.

Additional declaration type B or E may be eligible for use with this Additional Procedure Code.

The modified I1 data set may not be used where any commodities subject to prohibitions, restrictions or licencing conditions are being imported.

Additional Declaration Type B or E may only be used with Additional Procedure Code F45, where the Procedure Code (DE 1/10) notes specifically allow.

Additional Procedure Code F45 may only be used with a Declaration Category I1 B&E (occasional use) data set where the following conditions are met:

 * Every goods item declared on the declaration must be eligible to use a Declaration Category I1 B&E (occasional use) data set
 * The DE 1/10 Procedure Code permits the use of codes B and/or E in DE 1/2
 * All Additional Procedure Codes declared in DE 1/11 for the goods item permit the use of Declaration Category I1 B&E (occasional use)

Code F45 may not be used unless Additional Procedure Code C30 is also entered on the goods item:

Where Additional Declaration Types B or E are used, a simplified declaration should be submitted, as per [Appendix 21G: Declaration Category data set: Import Simplified Declaration on an occasional basis (DE 1/2 Codes B&E)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/appendix-21-import-declaration-category-data-sets/appendix-21g-declaration-category-data-sets-i1-be). In these instances, a subsequent supplementary declaration is not required.

Additional Procedure Code F45 can only be used with Requested and Previous Procedure codes (DE 1/10): 40 00, 40 51, 40 53, 4054, 40 71, 40 78.

### Additional documents needed:

\xe2\x80\x93

   [    Contents](#contents)   Print this page       