0151:
-----

These completion notes should be read in conjunction with the main UK Trade Tariff, CDS Volume 3 Import Declaration Completion Guide. These are additional notes on specific declaration data elements in relation to this procedure code and do not constitute full guidance on how the declaration should be completed.

### Description of procedure:

The use of this procedure code is a declaration by the importer that the conditions laid down in Council Regulation (EU) No. 952/2013, Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No. 2015/2446 and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 2015/2447 are met.

Release for free circulation of goods simultaneously re-dispatched to a Special Fiscal Territory or other territory with which the EU has formed a Customs Union and where the goods have been previously entered to inward processing (Article 256 EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (UCC)).

### Conditions for use:

This Procedure Code is used to claim simultaneous release for free circulation and dispatch to another territory in the context of trade between the Union and the countries with which it has formed a customs union for goods which were previously entered to inward processing (IP). These goods are then the subject of a VAT-exempt supply to another Customs Union Territory and, when applicable, an excise-duty suspension. The VAT and applicable excise duty will be due in the Customs Union Territory of final destination.

For territories which fall within the scope of Directives 2006/112/EC and 2008/118/EC, use of this procedure code is dependent on complying with the conditions laid down for an onward dispatch, for example, completion of movement of goods in excise suspense requirements.

Any customs duties must be paid or accounted for under Article 195, EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (UCC), in order for the goods to be released to this procedure.

An Inward Processing (IP) authorisation, valid at the time the goods were entered to IP, is needed to use this procedure. This may be pre-approved (single member state or multi-state) or declaration specific (Authorisation by Customs Declaration), see conditions and requirements detailed in [Notice 3001](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code).

These notes must be read in conjunction with the appropriate completion notes for the Additional Procedure Code used on the declaration (DE 1/11).

### Restrictions on usage:

Goods must be intended for onward dispatch to another Customs Union Territory at the time this procedure is requested. The goods must be onward dispatched:

 * Within 30 days of the goods release to this procedure;
 * In an unaltered state from the time of their entry to inward processing. Where the goods are diverted from IP, the goods subject to the onward dispatch must have been diverted unprocessed. Where the goods were processed under IP they are not eligible for onward dispatch relief.

Evidence of an onward shipment contract must be declared in DE 2/3 (Document Codes).

Evidence of eligibility for customs duty relief under the Inward Processing (IP) procedure must be held. A duty calculation worksheet to verify any duty override calculations will be required (see DE 2/3 Document Codes).

The use of this procedure is subject to a full authorisation (single member state or multi-state), or an Authorisation by Customs Declaration being held at the time the goods were entered to IP.

Where the additional declaration type used in DE 1/2 is: C, authorisation to use the Simplified Declaration Procedures (SDP) must also be held.

Additional declaration type (DE 1/2): C cannot be used where use of the previous procedure was approved by Authorisation by Customs Declaration. If the previous procedure was approved by Authorisation by Customs Declaration AI code 00100 in DE 2/2 may only be used with code A in DE 1/2 on this declaration.

Authorisation by Customs Declaration may only be used where the entry to and discharge of the special procedure occur within the same Member State.

Release for free circulation is dependent on the application of customs formalities relating to the release of the goods. This includes the application of commercial policy measures, including any prohibitions or restrictions (Article 201, EU Reg. No. 952/2013 (UCC)).

This Procedure Code may not be used with Entry in Declarant\xe2\x80\x99s Records (EIDR).

### Notices:

Information can be found on Inward Processing on Gov.UK:

[Inward Processing Relief](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-to-delay-or-pay-less-duty-on-goods-you-import-to-process-or-repair)  
[Customs special procedures for the Union Customs Code (Notice 3001)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/notice-3001-special-procedures-for-the-union-customs-code)

### Declaration category:

H1 and I1 (See C* below).

### Declaration Type (DE 1/1):

Enter code: IM.

### Additional Declaration Type (DE 1/2):

The following codes may be entered for this Procedure Code: A or C*.

Please note: Where a C* simplified declaration is made, the H1 data set (as specified in [Appendix 21A: Declaration Category Data Sets H1](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/appendix-21-import-declaration-category-data-sets/appendix-21a-declaration-category-data-sets-h1)) must be used and the supplementary declaration is waived.

The customs declaration must be cleared by Customs prior to the goods being released to the procedure.

### Simplified Declaration/Previous Document (DE 2/1):

The list below details the Previous Document reference types to be used in specific circumstances for this Procedure Code. Please refer to [Appendix 3: DE 2/1 Previous Document Codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/previous-document-codes-for-data-element-21-of-the-customs-declaration-service) for alternative codes which may be used if the circumstances below do not apply:



  |  Document category |  Previous document type |  Previous document reference |  Goods item identifier (where applicable) | 
   |  Z (to represent the previous document). |  ZZZ (for any other previous reference). |  Enter another recognisable reference number (for example stock reference). |  Enter the goods item number from the previous document. | 
 |  Z |  MRN (Declaration/notification). |  Enter the MRN of the declaration used to enter the goods to IP. |  Enter the goods item number from the previous document. | 
 |  Z |  DCR (to represent the DUCR). |  Enter the DUCR assigned in the commercial records to the consignment (as appropriate). |  \xc2\xa0 | 
 |  Z |  DCS (to represent any DUCR part no\xe2\x80\x99s). |  Enter any part numbers associated with the DUCR (as appropriate). |  \xc2\xa0 | 
 
Please note that code Y for the SDE elements are not included here as the supplementary declaration is waived. The simplified declaration, code C in DE 1/2 (Additional Declaration Type) must be declared using the full H1 data set.

### Additional Information (DE 2/2):

Please refer to [Appendix 4: DE 2/2 Additional Information Statement Codes](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/additional-information-ai-statement-codes-for-data-element-22-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds) for the relevant codes and details to be declared (for example, ECONR, ID no. of the excise registered consignor).

Appendix 4 includes the codes for all AI statements that may be used on CDS. Where both Union and National AI statements are being declared, enter any Union AI statements first. Union AI statements will begin with a number.

The following AI statements may be required in DE 2/2:



  |  Coverage |  AI Statement code |  Details to be declared | 
   |  Authorisation by Customs Declaration only: Inward Processing Authorisation granted on the declaration at the time of entry to the procedure. |  00100 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98Discharge of Simplified Authorisation\xe2\x80\x99 for claims to IP.  
Note: Users of an Authorisation by Customs Declaration should refer to Appendix 4: DE 2/2 Additional Information Statement Codes which may be required for the specific operation. | 
 |  Full authorisation holders only:  
Discharge of Inward Processing (Article 241(1) EU Reg. No. 2015/2446 (DA)). |  10200 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98IP\xe2\x80\x99 followed by the relevant authorisation number or INF number. | 
 |  Discharge of Inward Processing (specific commercial policy measures): Where goods placed under the inward processing procedure are subject to specific commercial policy measures and such measures continue to be applicable at the time when the goods, whether in the form of processed products or not, are placed under a subsequent customs procedure (refer to Notice 3001). |  10300 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98IP CPM\xe2\x80\x99. | 
 |  Excise registered consignor. |  ECONR |  Enter the identification number of the excise registered consignor. | 
 |  Consignment/work number. |  GEN45 |  Enter the unique reference number, allocated to the consignment/work by the authorisation holder. | 
 |  Use with A.86(3) UCC debt rules only:  
Declaration that the IP authorisation holder is using the Article 86(3) EU Reg No 952/2013 (UCC) customs debt rules. This AI code must be used with DE 1/11 Additional Procedure Code F44. See DE 1/11 F44 Additional Procedure Code notes for details. |  GEN86 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98Article 86(3)\xe2\x80\x99. | 
 |  Duty calculation override.  
Note: this code is only to be used where the amount of duty payable is being manually calculated, as required by the customs procedure. |  OVR01 |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98Duty override claimed\xe2\x80\x99 followed by a plain text description of the reason for the override.  
For example, Duty override claimed Inward Processing | 
 |  Onward Supply Dispatch using Requested Procedure 01. |  OSD01 |  Enter the Name and Address details of the party to whom the goods are being dispatched. Enter the country of destination as a suffix to the address separated by \xe2\x80\x98-\xe2\x80\x98. | 
 
### Documents produced, certificates and authorisations, additional references (DE 2/3):

Please refer to [Appendix 5: DE 2/3 Documents and Other Reference Codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/data-element-23-documents-and-other-reference-codes-of-the-customs-declaration-service-cds) for the relevant document codes, document status codes and details to be declared (for example, licences and certificates). Where both Union and National document codes are being declared, enter any Union codes first. Union codes will begin with a letter.

Appendix 5 includes the codes for all documents, references and authorisation types that may be used on CDS. For example, C512 to be declared when the Simplified Declaration Procedure (SDP) is being used). The corresponding EORI number of the authorisation holder must be declared in DE 3/39 against the appropriate authorisation type code.

The specific document code references detailed below must be declared (as applicable).

Onward Transport details:

Using the code list in Appendix 5: DE 2/3 Documents and Other Reference Codes, select the appropriate document code between N703 to N787 to specify the onward means of transport. Enter the relevant code followed by:

 * The identity number of the transport contract and
 * The scheduled date of the onward transport.

Required by holders of a full Inward Processing authorisation only:

Enter the IP authorisation number valid at the time the goods were entered to IP:



  |  Document code |  Document identifier: country code |  Document identifier: authorisation type code |  Document identifier: authorisation number | 
   |  C601 |  e.g. GB |  IPO |  Inward Processing authorisation number. | 
 
Deferment only:

When deferred payment is being used for customs duty purposes, enter the following document codes:



  |  Document code |  Document identifier: country code |  Document identifier: authorisation type code |  Document identifier: authorisation number | 
   |  C505 |  e.g., GB |  CGU |  Enter the authorisation reference for the comprehensive guarantee or  
Enter the details shown under C505 in Appendix 5A where a comprehensive guarantee is not required. | 
 |  C506 |  e.g., GB |  DPO |  Enter the Deferment Account Number being used to pay/secure the Customs Duty. | 
 


  |  Document code |  Document identifier |  Document status | 
   |  1207 |  Enter the date and location details entered on the C1207S. |  Enter the appropriate document status code. | 
 
Please note that where deferred payment is being used for customs duty purposes, both codes C505 and C506 must be declared. These codes are not required when deferment is only being used for non-Customs duty tax types in DE 4/8 Method of Payment.

Inward Processing declarations where Article 86(3) UCC customs debt rules are being used:

Enter:



  |  Document code |  Document identifier: |  Document status | 
   |  9WKS |  Reference number of the commercial records detailing the duty calculation. |  The document status code as AC, AE, AF, AG, AP, AS, AT, JA, JE or JP as appropriate. | 
 
### Deferred Payment (DE 2/6):

This data element must be completed when codes E or R are declared in DE 4/8 (Method of Payment).

Enter the Deferment Account Numbers (DANs) of the deferment accounts to be used to:

 * Defer the payment of the customs duty and other charges (for example, excise duty), or;
 * Provide a deferred deposit.

The deferment account details should be entered in the following format:



  |  Code |  Details to be declared |  Description | 
   |  1DAN |  Deferment account number (n7). |  The deferment account to be used for all charges | 
 
Please note document codes C505 and C506 must also be declared in DE 2/3 and authorisation codes CGU and DPO declared in DE 3/39 when deferred payment is being used for customs duty purposes. They are not required when deferment is only being used for other taxes.

### Holder of the authorisation identification number (DE 3/39):

Please refer to [Appendix 6: DE 3/39 Authorisation Type Codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/authorisation-type-codes-for-data-element-339-of-the-customs-declaration-service) for the list of codes to be declared (for example, SDE to be declared when Simplified Declaration Procedure is being used).

This data element does not require completion for the following types of authorisation:

 * Authorisation by Customs Declaration for Special Procedures

For all other authorisations:

The Authorisation Type Code and relevant EORI number for the authorisation holder must be declared for each type of authorisation required in order to declare the goods to the procedure concerned. The corresponding authorisation decision number must be declared in DE 2/3 against the appropriate document code.



  |  Authorisation type |  Authorisation type code |  Identifier | 
   |  Provision of a comprehensive guarantee, including reduction or waiver |  CGU* |  The EORI number of the authorisation holder. | 
 |  Deferred Payment |  DPO* |  The EORI number of the DAN holder. | 
 |  Inward Processing |  IPO** |  The EORI number of the authorisation holder of IP at the time of entry to the procedure. | 
 
*CGU and DPO only required for deferment they are being used to pay or secure customs duty. They are not required when deferment is only being used for other taxes.

**Code IPO is only required when a full authorisation is held.

### Tax Type (DE 4/3):

Enter the appropriate tax type using the codes from [Appendix 8: DE 4/3: Tax Types](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/tax-types-for-data-element-43-of-the-customs-declaration-service) for each tax to be paid or secured.

### Tax Base (DE 4/4):

DE 4/4 is required where AI statement code OVR01 is entered in DE 2/2 (Additional Information). Enter the measurement unit code of \xe2\x80\x98GBP\xe2\x80\x99 followed by the value of the goods originally entered to inward processing.

### Payable Tax Amount (DE 4/6):

DE 4/6 is required where AI statement code OVR01 is entered in DE 2/2 (Additional Information).

Enter the amount of revenue due against each tax type on the goods being released to free circulation.

Document code 9WKS should be entered in DE 2/3 (Document Codes).

### Total Taxes (DE 4/7):

DE 4/7 is required where AI statement code OVR01 is entered in DE 2/2 (Additional Information).

Enter the total amount of taxes due on the goods. This should equal the amount of tax manually calculated for each tax type (as per DE 4/6).

### Method of Payment (DE 4/8):

Enter a Method of Payment (MOP) code for each tax type to be paid or secured using the codes from [Appendix 9: DE 4/8: Method of Payment Codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/method-of-payment-codes-for-data-element-48-of-the-customs-declaration-service).

When Simplified Declaration Procedure (SDP) with regular use is being used, only MOP codes E or R may be used.

### Item Price/Amount (DE 4/14):

The declared values or prices must be the values or prices of the goods now being released to free circulation.

### Country of Destination Code (DE 5/8):

Enter the appropriate code for the Customs Union Territory of destination using the codes specified in [Appendix 13: Country Codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/country-codes-for-the-customs-declaration-service), for example: JE for Jersey, GG for Guernsey. Non-UK Special Fiscal Territories should be declared using the Country Code shown for the Customs Union Territory in Appendix 13: Country Codes.

Country codes GB and IM must not be used.

### Location of Goods (DE 5/23):

Enter the location details appropriate to the type of authorisation held as indicated in the table below:



  |  Type of Authorisation held |  Location Type Identifier |  Location Details | 
   |  Full IP authorisation |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98GBBYIP\xe2\x80\x99. |  Followed by the IP authorisation number. | 
 |  Authorisation by Customs Declaration |  Enter \xe2\x80\x98GBBU\xe2\x80\x99. |  Followed by the appropriate GB UN/LOCODE code*. | 
 
*Select the GB UN/LOCODE code from [Appendix 16I: DE 5/23: Goods Location Codes: GB Place Names and UN/LOCODE Codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/gb-place-names-and-unlocode-codes-for-data-element-523-of-the-customs-declaration-service) for the nearest place name to the premises where the goods are located.

### Supervising Customs Office (DE 5/27):

Enter the supervising customs office code applicable for the Inward Processing authorisation held from [Appendix 17: DE 5/27 Supervising Office Code List](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/supervising-office-codes-for-data-element-527-of-the-customs-declaration-service).

For fully authorised traders, the Supervising Customs Office shown on the authorisation for Inward Processing, or;

Where an authorisation is granted under \xe2\x80\x98Authorisation by Customs Declaration\xe2\x80\x99, enter code \xe2\x80\x98GBBEL004\xe2\x80\x99 for the HMRC National Import Relief Unit (NIRU).

### Details of Goods (DE 6/8 \xe2\x80\x93 6/17):

Enter the details of the goods in terms of the processed/compensating products.

### Guarantee Type (DE 8/2):

Enter code \xe2\x80\x98Y\xe2\x80\x99 where Cash Accounts are being used to pay/secure the duties and other charges concerned (where code N or P are declared in DE 4/8 Method of Payment).

### Guarantee Reference (DE 8/3):

Enter the EORI number of the holder of the Cash Account being used to pay/secure any duties and charges where the Method of Payment codes N or P are declared in DE 4/8 Method of Payment.

### Additional Procedure Codes (DE 1/11):

The following Additional Procedure Codes may be used with Procedure Code 0151:

#### Union Additional Procedure Codes:

A04, F06, F15, F44.

#### National Additional Procedure Codes:

1CD, 1CG.

### Notes:

The use of this requested procedure is dependent on the payment of any customs duties due. The payment of VAT or Excise duties may be suspended as these will be payable in the Customs Union Territory of destination.

The use of this procedure code is a declaration by the importer that the conditions laid down in Council Regulation (EU) No. 952/2013, Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No. 2015/2446 and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 2015/2447 are met.

 * Entry under this procedure code is an undertaking by the importer to produce on demand by an officer of HMRC, commercial documentation as verification that the goods have been dispatched onward to a Special Fiscal Territory of another member state or a territory with which the EU has formed a customs union.
 * Entry under this procedure code is an undertaking by the importer/agent to pay to the Commissioners of HMRC immediately on demand any duties or other charges due in respect of the goods in question if the conditions of the relief aren\xe2\x80\x99t met.
 * Procedure Codes on a Customs declaration must all be in the same declaration category e.g.H1.
 * Additional Procedure code F15 must always be declared in DE 1/11 (Additional Procedure Code).
 * Where the authorisation was granted at the time of entry to IP under the Authorisation by Customs Declaration a copy of the authorisation letter issued by NIRU must be provided to Customs (on request) unless the MRN details of the declaration have been declared in DE 2/1 (Previous Documents).
 * If the goods were first entered to IP in another member state, you must use Procedure Code 0154 instead.
 * Agents must have prior written approval from the authorisation holder to enter goods to IP on their behalf and ensure a copy of the declaration is returned to the holder.
 * Traders are reminded that failure to submit a suspension Bill of Discharge by the due date to their supervising office may lead to having to pay any suspended duty and VAT.
 * Code F44 may not be used on the diversion to Free Circulation unless F44 was also quoted on the original declaration in DE 1/11 (Additional Procedure Code) placing the goods under IP.

### VAT:

Use of this procedure code gives relief from VAT which must be accounted for, if applicable, in the destination Customs Union Territory.

### Security required:

Security is only needed for tariff quota relief where:

 * Required by a critical quota or
 * A claim to preferential rates or tariff quota cannot be confirmed from the supporting documents.

### Excise:

Use of this procedure code gives relief from excise duty which must be accounted for, if applicable, in the destination Customs Union Territory.

Additional procedure code F06 must be declared in DE 1/11 (Additional Procedure Code) to qualify for the exemption.

Excise goods may only be moved under excise duty suspension when a registered consignor has started the movement via EMCS following release of the goods to free circulation. AI statement code ECONR must be included in DE 2/2 (Additional Information).

